Hideyo Noguchi (November 9, 1876 - May 21, 1928) was a Japanese physician and bacteriologist. Noguchi was awarded the fifth degree of the Order of the Rising Sun, Gold Rays with Rosette and the Order of the Rising Sun, Gold Rays with Rosette. Noguchi degrees are Doctor of Medicine (Kyoto University) and Doctor of Science (University of Tokyo). Noguchi is a Christian.

Born in Sanwa-mura, Yama-gun, Fukushima Prefecture (now Inawashiro-cho, Yama-gun). After graduating from high school, Noguchi moved to Tokyo, attended Saisei Gakusha (the predecessor of Nippon Medical School), passed the medical practice examination, and became a doctor. Noguchi moved to the U.S. and worked as an assistant at the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine before becoming a researcher at the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research. Noguchi was mainly engaged in bacteriological research and was known for Noguchi work on yellow fever and syphilis. Noguchi published numerous papers and was named three times as a candidate for the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine. Noguchi achievements include the creation of a vaccine for South American Weil's disease, the discovery of syphilis spirochetes in brain tissue, the discovery of the Oroya fever pathogen, and research on tropical leishmaniasis, although Noguchi discoveries of trachoma, rabies, and the yellow fever pathogen were later denied. Noguchi himself contracted yellow fever while researching the disease and died on May 21, 1928, at the age of 51 in Accra, on the British Gold Coast (now the Republic of Ghana).
November 9 - Born in Aza Miki Lagoon, Sanwa-mura, Yama-gun, Fukushima Prefecture (now Inawashiro-cho), the eldest son of a postman, Sayosuke Noguchi, and a mother, Shika, and named Seisaku (Noguchi changed Noguchi name to Eisei at age 22 for reasons described below).
At the age of one, Seisaku fell into the hearth and suffered severe burns on Noguchi left hand.
Entered Sanwa Elementary School. Due to a disability in Noguchi left hand, it was difficult for Noguchi to do farm work, and Noguchi mother admonished Noguchi to make a living through academics. In elementary school, Noguchi was bullied and called "Seibokko" because Noguchi had a serious burn on Noguchi left hand.
Noguchi was recognized by Ei Kobayashi, the head teacher of Inawashiro High School, for Noguchi excellent grades, and entered Inawashiro High School through Kobayashi's arrangement.
Seisaku's essay lamenting the disability of Noguchi left hand drew the sympathy of Kobayashi and other teachers and classmates, which led to a fund-raising campaign to raise money for an operation to fix Seisaku's left hand, and Noguchi underwent surgery on Noguchi left hand under the care of Watabe Ting, a doctor returning from America who was practicing in Aizuwakamatsu. As a result, Noguchi is able to use the fingers of Noguchi left hand, albeit crippled. Seisaku was so impressed by the success of this surgery that Noguchi decided to become a doctor.
March - After graduating from Inawashiro High Elementary School, Seisaku studied the basics of medicine for about three and a half years while working as a live-in student at the Kaiyo Clinic run by Watabe, who operated on Noguchi. In August 1896, Noguchi met Morinosuke Kiwaki, a friend of Watanabe's who was a dentist and lecturer at Takayama Higher School of Dental Medicine (the predecessor of Tokyo Dental College) in Minato Ward, Tokyo, and six years older than Noguchi.
September - Noguchi borrows a large sum of money from Kobayashi and others, 40 yen (about 800,000 yen at today's price), and moves to Tokyo. Noguchi passes the first stage (written exam) of the medical practice examination required to obtain a medical license, but Noguchi debauchery causes Noguchi funds to run out after only two months and Noguchi is forced to leave the boarding house. Until Noguchi passes the second semester examination, Noguchi tries to get a job as a student at the Takayama Higher School of Dental Medicine where Kubaki works, but the director refuses to hire Noguchi, and Noguchi ends up staying at the boarding house unofficially on Kubaki's own initiative. After that, Noguchi became a student, doing cleaning and other chores.
In the same year, Noguchi wanted to obtain tuition money for Mrs. Eliza Keppen's night school for the purpose of learning German, and consulted with Bloodwaki, but Bloodwaki, whose monthly salary was 4 yen, could not raise the money, so Noguchi gave Bloodwaki a plan and had the Director negotiate a salary increase. As a result, Noguchi salary was raised to 7 yen per month, from which Noguchi was able to obtain tuition fees.
Since the late examination (clinical examination) was to diagnose actual patients and it was impossible to pass it by self-study, Noguchi again gave Bloodwaki a secret plan to negotiate with the hospital director in order to obtain funds to attend the Saisei Gakusha (predecessor of Nippon Medical School), a preparatory school for the medical practice practice examination. As a result, the director entrusted Noguchi with the management of the hospital, allowing Noguchi to run the hospital's budget freely, and Noguchi himself succeeded in receiving 15 yen per month from the director, which enabled Noguchi to attend Saisei Gakusha. Noguchi stayed at Taiseikan in Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, near the Saisei Academy.
Unable to take the required clinical examination, Noguchi underwent free reoperation on Noguchi left hand by Tsugishige Kondo, Assistant Professor of Surgery at Imperial University, as arranged by Kiwaki. As a result, Noguchi was able to take a clinical examination, and in October, Noguchi passed the latter stage of the examination as well. Although Noguchi obtained Noguchi medical license, Noguchi decided to give up Noguchi career as a clinician and become a basic medical researcher because Noguchi did not have the funds to start Noguchi own practice and did not want Noguchi left hand to be seen by patients. Under the arrangement of Dr. Kubaki, Noguchi became a lecturer at Takayama Higher School of Dental Medicine, and also worked as an assistant at Juntendo Hospital, where Noguchi was involved in editing the "Juntendo Medical Research Association Journal".
October - After a request from Noguchi supervisor at Juntendo (currently Juntendo University School of Medicine), chief editor Tetsuzo Kanno, Noguchi was introduced by Juntendo Medical Director Susumu Sato to work at the Research Institute of Infectious Diseases (currently the Institute of Medical Science, University of Tokyo), where Shibasaburo Kitasato, world-renowned for Noguchi development of serum therapy, was the director. Although Noguchi was not involved in research, Noguchi language skills were valued, and Noguchi worked as a foreign librarian, abstracting foreign papers, interpreting for foreigners, and negotiating with people outside the institute. In August of the same year, an acquaintance recommended Noguchi to read a popular novel by Shoyo Tsubouchi, "Shosei temperament", and Noguchi was strongly struck by the resemblance of the character Seisaku Nonoguchi, who lived a self-indulgent life, with a fondness for eloquence and repeated debts, to Noguchi name, and Noguchi own bad habit of frequenting brothels, etc., with repeated debts. Concerned about the possibility of being falsely accused of being a model, Noguchi decided to change Noguchi name. After consulting with Kobayashi in Noguchi hometown, Noguchi was given a new name, "Eisei," which means "to be accepted by the world. Although it is legally difficult to change one's name in the family register, Noguchi asked a person named Seisaku, who lived in another village, to adopt Noguchi into another Noguchi family in the neighborhood of Noguchi birthplace, intentionally creating a second Seisaku Noguchi and claiming that it was confusing to have two people named Seisaku Noguchi in the same village. Noguchi succeeded in changing Noguchi name in the family register by claiming that it was confusing to have two people named Noguchi Seisaku in the same village.
April - As part of Noguchi duties as a liaison officer at the National Institute of Infectious Diseases, Noguchi was assigned to guide Dr. Simon Flexner, who was visiting Japan from the U.S. to observe Kiyoshi Shiga's research on dysentery, and approached Flexner about the possibility of Noguchi own study abroad in the U.S.
May - An incident was discovered in which the books in the collection of the Research Institute of Infectious Diseases were sold after being loaned out through Noguchi. Noguchi was removed from Noguchi position at the institute because of this incident, but became an assistant quarantine officer at the quarantine station at the Port of Yokohama under the arrangement of Director Kitasato (see former Nagahama Quarantine Station, Stop #1).
June - A plague patient is found and diagnosed on board the "Amerika Maru", which arrives at the port of Yokohama.
October - In recognition of Noguchi work as an assistant quarantine officer, Noguchi is selected to join the international quarantine team requested by the Ministry of Home Affairs for the Kitasato Infectious Disease Research Institute to fight plague in Qing China. However, Noguchi used up Noguchi preparation money of 96 yen through debauchery and traveled to Qing China with funds raised by Kesaki. In Qing China, Noguchi worked on the treatment of common diseases, mainly at Usho. After Noguchi six-month term ended, Noguchi remained at the request of the International Sanitary Bureau and the Russian Sanitary Corps. After experiencing international work, Noguchi wrote a letter to Flexner in May of the following year, expressing Noguchi wish to study in the U.S. (Rockefeller University, noguchi-paper). Although Noguchi was blessed with a very high salary during this period, Noguchi was unable to obtain funds for Noguchi trip because Noguchi had spent it all on debauchery.
The Rockefeller Institute of Medicine is founded. Flexner was entrusted with the organizational structure for the establishment of this institute.
Cuban ophthalmologist Carlos Finlay and American military physician Colonel Walter Reed (English version) discover through human experimentation that yellow fever is transmitted by mosquitoes. They also prove that the yellow fever pathogen is in the blood and that it is a filterable virus by passing the serum of yellow fever patients through a bacterial filter (Noguchi did not accept this proof in Noguchi later studies of yellow fever in South America).
October - Studied at the Serum Institute in Copenhagen, Denmark, under the direction of Flexner. Continues research in serology and writes several papers jointly with Torval Massen (English version).
October - Returns to the U.S. and moves to the Rockefeller Institute of Medicine.
Bloodwaki repays the Saito family the engagement dowry of 300 yen and breaks off Noguchi engagement to Masuko Saito.
August - Noguchi's announcement of "Success in Pure Culture of Pathogenic Syphilis Spirochetes" made Noguchi famous in the world medical community (however, Noguchi's strain lost its virulence after passaging, and no one has successfully followed up with a pure culture of pathogenic syphilis spirochetes to this day). (Successful in vitro culture of pathogenic syphilis spirochetes of the Nichols I strain was reported several times after 1981, but the culture conditions were different from those reported by Noguchi, and success in pure culture has been almost completely ruled out in the present day.) Noguchi submitted Noguchi thesis to the Department of Pathology, Kyoto Imperial University, and was awarded the degree of Doctor of Medicine.
April 10 - At age 34, Noguchi marries Mary Darges, an American woman of the same age.
Syphilitic spirochetes were identified in the brain pathology of patients with progressive paralysis and locus coeruleus, and the relationship between this disease and syphilis was clarified. This was the first demonstration of the homogeneity of physiological and psychiatric diseases. Noguchi also published the results of pathogen identification of childhood paralysis and rabies (however, the pathogen identification of childhood paralysis and rabies was denied in later years).
April - Received the degree of Doctor of Science from the University of Tokyo. In July of the same year, Noguchi is promoted to full member of the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research. Noguchi was nominated for the Nobel Prize in Medicine that year.
A photograph of Noguchi using autochrome technology, believed to have been taken in that year, remains, and is believed to be the first color photograph of a Japanese national.
September 5 - Eisei returns to Japan for the first time in 15 years to be reunited with Noguchi elderly mother. Noguchi is awarded the Imperial Prize by the Imperial Academy. Noguchi also observes the research of Tatsukichi Inada and Yasushi Ido, who discovered Weil's disease spirochetes, and Tetsuta Ito's work on the pure culture of Weil's disease spirochetes. In October, Noguchi traveled with Noguchi mother and Ei Kobayashi to Mie, Osaka, Kyoto, etc. Noguchi left Japan on November 4. Noguchi was nominated for the Nobel Prize in Medicine for the second time.
June - At the behest of the Rockefeller Foundation, Noguchi was sent to Ecuador, where there was a yellow fever epidemic at the time, to discover the pathogen of yellow fever, for which there was no vaccine yet. The situation was urgent because there was a fear that sailors could be infected with yellow fever in the vicinity of the Panama Canal, which had just opened at that time. Noguchi had no clinical experience with yellow fever, but because the patient's symptoms closely resembled those of Weil's disease, Noguchi applied the Weil's disease pathogen culture method on a trial basis, and after nine days (there were various theories about the number of days), Noguchi succeeded in identifying the pathogen, which Noguchi named Leptospira icteloides. Based on this bacterium, Noguchi developed the Noguchi vaccine (however, because of its divergence from the results of Walter Reed's 1901 study, there were objections to Noguchi's theory from that time, especially the confusion with Weil's disease. (In a later study in Africa, Noguchi admitted that the yellow fever pathogen was filtratable, as Reed claimed.) For this achievement, Noguchi was appointed an honorary colonel in the Ecuadorian army. That same year, Eisei's mother, Sica, died of Spanish flu on November 10 at the age of 65.
December - Rockefeller Institute of Medicine sends a team of doctors to Mexico to study and eradicate yellow fever.
April - Visited Peru. Received an honorary doctorate from the Faculty of Medicine of the Universidad Nacional de San Marcos. During Noguchi four days in Lima, Noguchi received information on two endemic diseases, Oroya fever and Peruvian warts. This year, Noguchi was named a candidate for Noguchi third Nobel Prize in Medicine.
July - Eisei's father, Sayosuke, dies at age 72.
November - Becomes a member of the Imperial Academy of Japan.
Presented flagellate and yellow fever research at the "Tropical Diseases Conference" in Kingston, Jamaica. At this conference, Dr. Agramonte, a Cuban researcher, pointed out that Icteroides, which is believed to be a pathogen of yellow fever, differs only in its strain from the Weil's disease pathogen. After the meeting, Noguchi invites Agramonte and tries to persuade Noguchi by showing Noguchi own research results.
July - An outbreak of yellow fever occurs in Senegal, Africa. Reports are received from research facilities in England and France that Noguchi's vaccine is ineffective and that Icteroides has not been found. The Rockefeller Agency for International Health establishes a medical laboratory headquarters in Lagos, Nigeria, as a countermeasure organization against yellow fever, and dispatches Noguchi's subordinate, Dr. Adrian Stokes, a British-born medical doctor, with similar research results.
That Peruvian warts and Oroya fever were the same pathogen had been proven in 1885 by a Peruvian medical student, Daniel Alcides Carrión, but was denied by some in the American scientific community. Noguchi proved this by isolating the pathogenic bacterium Bartonella and experimenting with monkeys, putting an end to the controversy.
Max Tyler, a South African medical scientist, and Noguchi colleagues succeed in isolating the yellow fever virus. This disproves the Noguchi theory of yellow fever (that Icteroides is the pathogen).
Trachoma pathogen is presented (but is later ruled out due to the discovery of chlamydia).
Dr. Stokes, who was continuing Noguchi yellow fever research at the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research's Lagos headquarters, died of yellow fever in September.
October 23 - Travels to Africa for yellow fever research.
November 16 - Arrives in Accra, British Gold Coast (now Ghana), where Dr. William A. Young, a pathologist at the Rockefeller Institute of Medical Research of the British Colonial Office, lends Noguchi a research facility (outside the Rockefeller organization) to begin research, as Noguchi does not wish to work at the Lagos headquarters of the Rockefeller Medical Institute, where many researchers hold negative views about Noguchi's theory. Dr. William A. Young, a pathologist at the Medical Research Institute of the British Colonial Office, lent Noguchi a facility (outside the Rockefeller organization) and research began. The yellow fever is contained locally, and the Lagos headquarters does not provide blood containing the pathogen, and the research cannot proceed because the pathogen is not available.
December 26 - The company receives a report of a yellow fever-like epidemic in the village of Wenchi and goes to collect blood samples.
January 2 - Noguchi himself developed symptoms that Noguchi diagnosed as mild yellow fever and was hospitalized (however, another doctor diagnosed Noguchi with amoebic dysentery, so it is thought that Noguchi symptoms at this time were not yellow fever).
January 7 - Recovers and is discharged from the hospital and resumes research.
At the end of March, Noguchi sent a telegram to Flexner stating that Noguchi had almost identified a yellow fever pathogen different from Icteroides. In a letter to Noguchi secretary, Noguchi denies Noguchi previous theory, referring to a filtering microorganism (virus) as the pathogen.
April - A telegram is sent to Flexner stating that Noguchi will leave Accra on May 19 to continue Noguchi research in the United States.
May 11 - During a visit to the Rockefeller Institute headquarters in Lagos, Noguchi health deteriorates.
May 13 - Diagnosed with yellow fever and admitted to Ridge Hospital in Accra. Dr. Young comes to visit Noguchi and asks, "Are you alright?" Noguchi says, "I don't know," (wondering how Noguchi could have contracted yellow fever again when Noguchi was supposed to be immune for life). These words are believed to be Noguchi last.
May 16 - Noguchi recovers and Noguchi appetite returns to the point where Noguchi complains of hunger. This is reported to Flexner.
May 18 - Illness worsens again.
May 21 - Died in Noguchi hospital room around noon. Noguchi was 53 (died at age 51). After Noguchi's death, Dr. Young inoculated a monkey with Noguchi blood, which developed yellow fever, confirming that yellow fever was the cause of Noguchi's death (Dr. Young himself died of yellow fever on the 29th).
May 22 - The Rockefeller Institute raised the flag at half-staff to mourn Noguchi's death.
May 23 - New York newspapers (The New York Times, Morning World, Herald Tribune) mourned Noguchi's death in editorials.
June 15 - Noguchi was buried in Woodlawn Cemetery in New York, New York, USA. The Rockefeller Institute offered its condolences, praising Noguchi as "one of the greatest bacteriologists of all time."
Noguchi research style can be described as practical, emphasizing data collection from a vast array of experiments. Noguchi collected data by performing mind-boggling experimental patterns, such as making thousands of slides using hundreds of test tubes. Because of this peculiar research attitude, some in the American medical community at the time derided Noguchi as an "experimental machine" and a "Japanese who never sleeps. In the spring of 1919, Noguchi told Noguchi acquaintance, Yoshimon Hata, a doctor who visited the U.S., "Even though my thesis was at an unsatisfactory stage, I was rushed to the laboratory, and the results were not good enough. Noguchi was not only a researcher, but also a scientist, and Noguchi was also a member of the Institute of Modern Chemistry, which was the first of its kind in Japan. Noguchi published a large number of papers, 204 in all, during Noguchi lifetime. Of these, 150 were written under a single name.
At the Rockefeller Institute of Medicine in New York City in 1911 and 1912, Noguchi was attempting to develop a skin test for syphilis similar to the tuberculin test. Subjects were drawn from clinics and hospitals in New York City. In this experiment, Noguchi injected an extract of syphilis called ruetin under the skin of the subject's upper arm. Skin reactions differed between syphilitic and healthy subjects depending on the stage of disease progression and its treatment, and were studied. 315 of the 571 subjects were syphilitic. The remaining subjects were the "control group"; they were orphans and hospitalized patients who were not infected with syphilis. The hospitalized patients had already been treated for various non-syphilitic diseases such as malaria, leprosy, tuberculosis, and pneumonia. The remainder of the control group was healthy, mostly children between the ages of 2 and 18. Noguchi and the other doctors did not explain the experiment to the subjects and did not obtain their consent. Critics at the time, mostly in the anti-vivisection movement, noted that Noguchi violated the rights of vulnerable orphans and hospitalized patients. Some anti-vivisectionists were concerned that Noguchi's experiments may have exposed children to syphilis.

This became a well-known scandal and the media discussed it. The editor of Life magazine noted the following
If some researcher had asked the patients, "Would you give me permission to inject your body with a concoction associated with a more or less horrible disease?" the patients would have refused.
In defense of Noguchi, Jerome D. Greene (English version), a business manager at the Rockefeller Institute, sent a letter to an anti-biological testing group that was protesting the experiment. Greene pointed out that Noguchi and Noguchi fellow researchers had tested the extracts themselves before administering them to the subjects, so there was no possibility that this administration could cause syphilis. However, Noguchi himself was diagnosed with untreated syphilis in 1913, and Noguchi refused treatment for syphilis at Rockefeller Hospital. At the time, Greene's explanation was seen as proof of the importance of the experiment and the care the doctors were taking during the study; in May 1912, the New York Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children asked the New York District Attorney General to bring charges against Noguchi, but the request was denied.

In the United States, it was not until the late 20th century that laws were passed to protect human subjects and to foster a consensus on human experimentation. Along the way, more procedures were developed regarding informed consent and patient/subject rights.
Among the academic achievements that made Noguchi famous during Noguchi lifetime were the discovery of the syphilis pathogen in the brain of a patient with progressive paralysis and the identification and cultivation of several infectious disease pathogens. The latter achievement, however, was later denied.

The greatest of Noguchi's achievements that remain to this day is the discovery of syphilis spirochetes in the brains of patients with paralytic dementia and in the spinal cords of patients with locus coeruleus. At that time, paralytic dementia and locus coeruleus were already considered to be terminal symptoms of syphilis, but this had not been proven. Researchers had tried to find syphilitic spirochetes in the brains and spinal cords of syphilitic patients, but without success. Noguchi's microscopic observations of thousands of histopathological specimens at the time confirmed the presence of spirochetes deep in the fibers, rather than around blood vessels, where the bacteria were thought to be present, and clarified the link between neurological disease and infection. Once the location of spirochetes in the brain was known, they could be easily identified. They also found spirochetes in the spinal cord.

On the other hand, the research achievements that were later denied include the pure culture of pathogenic syphilis spirochetes and the study of yellow fever. The discovery of pathogens of acute poliomyelitis (poliomyelitis, childhood paralysis), rabies, yellow fever, and trachoma was also rejected because they were later found to be viruses or other pathogens, so that what can be evaluated in the field of microbiology today is only a part of the total body of work. This may be due to the fact that at the time of Noguchi's research, the existence of viruses as filtering pathogens had already been suggested, and Noguchi stuck to the method of studying spirochetes, which could be observed under an optical microscope, and the technical limitations of the culture method and other methods. The Journal of Experimental Medicine, which published the majority of the 200 or so papers published, was also found to have an inadequate peer-review system, as it was exempted from peer review by researchers outside the Rockefeller Institute of Medicine and was only accepted for publication if recommended by Flexner.

Noguchi also proved that Oroya fever, which is endemic in the mountains of Peru, Ecuador, and Colombia and transmitted by the tern fly and causes severe symptoms of hemolytic anemia, and Peruvian wart, which forms warts on the extremities reaching several centimeters in length, are the same disease. According to science historian Shigeru Nakayama, this is "recognized as the second greatest achievement" of Noguchi's work. In 1885, Peruvian medical student Daniel Carrión used Noguchi own body as an experimental subject to demonstrate a theory that had been proposed by Peruvian doctors, and it came to be called Carrión's disease (English version), It was recognized in Peru but rejected by Harvard University in the United States. Noguchi's work was a scientific proof of Carrion's report, and after much debate with Harvard about its success or failure, Noguchi's results were deemed correct.

Among Noguchi other accomplishments are Noguchi work on hemolytic changes caused by snake venom, which Noguchi conducted soon after coming to the United States, and Noguchi classification of serological herpetomonads (HERPETOMONADS) and leishmaniasis (Science, 1926).

As noted above, Noguchi has been nominated for the Nobel Prize many times, and Noguchi himself nominated bacteriophage researcher Felix Delayle for the 1926 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine.
1902 Serological study of snake venom
1911 Pure culture of syphilis spirochetes (later denied)
1913 Discovery of syphilis spirochetes in brain pathology of patients with progressive paralysis and locomotor ataxia.
1913: Identification of the pathogen of childhood paralysis (later ruled out)
1913 Rabies pathogen identified (later ruled out)
1918 Identification of the yellow fever pathogen in Ecuador (later ruled out). Vaccine development over the next year.
1926 (1926) Proof that Peruvian warts and Oroya fever are symptoms of the same disease.
1927 Research on tropical leishmaniasis
1927 Trachoma pathogen identified (later denied)
Hideyo Noguchi was born into a poor farm family and overcame the handicap of a severe burn on Noguchi left hand at the age of one to become a physician almost entirely self-taught, and Noguchi even achieved international fame for a time as a bacteriologist. Noguchi portrait is on the Bank of Japan's "E" 1,000-yen bill, issued since 2004.

Noguchi hobbies were Naniwabushi, Shogi, Igo, and oil painting. Noguchi designed Noguchi own villa in Shandaken, New York, where Noguchi made many of Noguchi oil paintings (Noguchi studied under Ichiro Hori, who was also a painter). There is also an anecdote that once Hideyo Noguchi played Shogi, Noguchi opponent was forced to play with Noguchi until Noguchi won.

At the entrance to the library of Rockefeller University in New York, USA, there is a bust of Noguchi created by Rockefeller and Russian sculptor Kanyonkov. This bust was a gift from the Rockefeller Foundation and is also installed in the Hideyo Noguchi Memorial Museum in Inawashiro Town, Fukushima Prefecture. The Gozo Kawamura Memorial Museum in Saku City, Nagano Prefecture, has a bust of Noguchi created by the sculptor Gozo Kawamura. There is also a bronze statue of Noguchi in front of the National Museum of Nature and Science in Ueno Onshi Park, Tokyo.
Noguchi's father, Sayosuke, was a lazy man who loved to drink and was often criticized in biographies as a person who contributed to the Noguchi family's poverty, but Sayosuke himself was not a particularly bad person and was said to have been a rather good-natured and likeable person in character. In later years, Noguchi cleverly persuaded Noguchi mentors and friends to repeatedly borrow large sums of money and was even called a "genius in debt." It is said that Noguchi's ability to get around the world, for better or worse, was a talent Noguchi inherited from Sayosuke. Noguchi also inherited Sayosuke's shortcomings as a drunkard and profligate spender, but these are often concealed in biographies.

In 1899, when the government established a new licensing system for the practice of midwifery, requiring all midwives to obtain a license, Sika, who could not read or write, asked the head priest of a nearby temple to teach her how to read and write from scratch. She passed the national examination, obtained an official license, and contributed to nearly 2,000 births during her lifetime. After coming to the U.S., Noguchi sent her mother a seal with her address in the U.S. engraved on it. This was sent in consideration of Noguchi mother's very poor handwriting. As mentioned above, Noguchi's mother, Shika, was originally illiterate and had to learn to read and write from scratch in order to obtain an official license to practice as a midwife. The letter is written in Aizu dialect, with some kanji characters (e.g., "bengyo" for "study") and Aizu dialect expressions and pronunciations (e.g., "ni" for "ni" and "e" for "i" in common language, "shashin" for "sashin"), suggesting the difficulty of writing the letter. It is reported that Noguchi one return to Japan was triggered by a letter from Noguchi mother, and that Noguchi stayed with her all the time when Noguchi returned to Japan.

As a young boy, Noguchi felt so estranged from Noguchi home that Noguchi wished to leave it, even to the point of preparing to die. Inu Noguchi, Noguchi older sister, later recalled the following argument they had on the banks of the Takano River. Inu: "I am leaving home, so you, the eldest son, must take over that house. My sister should take a son-in-law and take over. I don't want that hopeless peasant house. They continued to argue, and finally Kiyosaku tried to jump into the river. Kiyosaku said, "If I have to take over the house, I will die. (Hideyo Noguchi Memorial Association, "Hideyo Noguchi: Boyhood")
Noguchi has a crush on Yoneko Yamauchi, a female student six years Noguchi junior, whom Noguchi met at the Wakamatsu Sakae-machi Church of the Japan Christian Association, where Noguchi was baptized as a student in Aizu-Wakamatsu, and sends her many love letters. However, the pastor of the church contacted Noguchi via the principal of the girls' school and reprimanded Noguchi. In 1899, she went to see Yamauchi at her lodgings in Yushima, dressed in formal attire, just before she left for Qing China, and on her return from Qing China, she and Noguchi presented Yamauchi with a ring inscribed with Yamauchi's name. When Noguchi returned to Japan, Noguchi presented Yamauchi with a ring engraved with Noguchi's and Yamauchi's names. Yamauchi seemed to find this a nuisance and refused to see Noguchi after making a request to the housewife at Noguchi lodgings. Later, in 1902, at the age of 20, Yamauchi obtained a medical license and married Toshio Morikawa, a physician. Noguchi opened Sanseido Clinic in Aizuwakamatsu. Noguchi learned of Yamauchi's marriage via Yamauchi's cousin, Ryo Kaoru Kikuchi, and said, "A star flies away on a summer night, who will chase it? You, send me a happy life. Yamauchi can be seen in the commemorative photo of Noguchi's return to Japan.

Noguchi's relationship with Masuko Saito, whom Noguchi had engaged to marry in order to obtain funds for Noguchi trip to the U.S., became a source of concern for Noguchi after Noguchi arrival in the United States. Noguchi mentioned Masuko Saito many times in letters exchanged with Kubaki, who described Masuko Saito as "ugly and uneducated. Noguchi, however, did not break off the relationship himself, but instead tried to get the other party to break off the relationship. The common sense of the appropriate age differs from that of today, and while the Saito family repeatedly urged Noguchi to fulfill the engagement for fear of missing the wedding, Noguchi declared that Noguchi would not be able to return to Japan for research for several years and requested several thousand yen to fund Noguchi studies in Europe, and many other misplaced exchanges can be seen.
It is known that Noguchi had a poor sense of money due to Noguchi poor upbringing, and Noguchi was a rough spendthrift. When Noguchi spent the large sum of money (500 yen at the time) given to Noguchi by Morinosuke Kurawaki before Noguchi study abroad on entertainment, Kurawaki was indeed stunned and at a loss for words for a while. Still, Kiwaki believed in Noguchi's talent and went to a money lender to prepare funds for Noguchi to study abroad again. In 1922, when Noguchi visited the U.S., Noguchi was so delighted that Noguchi accompanied Noguchi from morning till night for several days to show Noguchi around. Noguchi even took time out of Noguchi busy schedule to meet the president, introducing Noguchi as "my great benefactor, Dr. Morinosuke Kiwaki," and acting as interpreter when Kiwaki gave a lecture. When they parted, Bloodwaki said, "I took care of you in many ways when you were young, and now I am greatly indebted to you. Now we are even." Noguchi said, "I have lived in the U.S. for a long time, but I would never forget the favors I have done to others. Please call me Seisaku as you did in the past. I can't tell you how much that would mean to me.
The curriculum vitae Noguchi gave to Flexner states that Noguchi entered Tokyo Medical University in May 1893 and graduated in three years, and the official records of the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research also indicate this. In fact, in 1893, Noguchi was a student in Aizu-Wakamatsu and attended the Saisei Gakusha, a preparatory school for the medical practice examination, for only a few months after that. In addition, from Noguchi first paper published in the U.S., Noguchi consistently indicated that Noguchi was an M.D., but there were only a few dozen M.D.'s in Japan at that time, and Noguchi academic background and title were fraudulent (Saisei Gakusha was called "Tokyo Senmon Gakko Saisei Gakusha" at the time, and graduation was certified upon obtaining a medical license). (However, Saisei Gakusha was called "Tokyo Senmon Gakko Saisei Gakusha" at that time, and the graduation was recognized along with the acquisition of a medical license. However, Noguchi graduated in six months, so Noguchi was not enrolled in the school for three years. MD is synonymous with a medical license, which is different from a Ph. In 1927, when Noguchi friend Ichiro Hori was interviewed by an American newspaper reporter, Noguchi told the reporter that Noguchi had not graduated from university in order to explain that Noguchi was a struggling student.

When Noguchi was working at the Rockefeller Institute, Noguchi once lived with a foreign student from Japan. Noguchi suggested to the foreign student, "You must have studied a lot since you came here, and it's about time you published a paper. Noguchi then said, "Then I will translate what you said in Japanese into English," and we decided to collaborate on the writing of the paper. Upon completion, Noguchi declared, "Go to the post immediately," but the foreign student retorted, "It's late, as it's a stone's throw away, so let's do it tomorrow. Noguchi responded, "That's not good enough. Go get it in right now. Someone else may be doing the same research as you. If your presentation is delayed even one day, it will not be yours. It will all be for nothing. The foreign student was so impressed that Noguchi ran through the dark streets to submit Noguchi paper and returned home safely.
In New York, Noguchi chess partner was Ichiro Hori, a photographer who was also Noguchi painting teacher, and Noguchi Go partner was Gozo Kawamura, a sculptor. When Mr. Noguchi started winning, Mr. Hori would wait for Noguchi to win, then go back three or four moves until finally Mr. Hori won the second round. The second round was won by Noguchi-san, and so it was late at night with one win and one loss, and the next night they played again. This continued for many nights and years," Gozo Kawamura wrote in "Memories of Dr. Noguchi" about Hideyo Noguchi and Ichiro Hori's chess matches.

In 1901, when Noguchi was 24 years old, Noguchi visited the residence of former Prime Minister Hirobumi Ito, who was staying in Philadelphia, U.S., at the arrangement of Hoshiichi, an entrepreneur of the same generation, and had a pleasant conversation for about an hour. Later, both of them were chosen as the portrait of each other on the 1,000-yen bill.

When Du Souming, a leading figure in Taiwanese medical circles, was a student at Kyoto University, Noguchi visited Noguchi at the Rockefeller Institute in New York. While Noguchi and Du were chatting in Japanese in the institute's cafeteria, an American entered the cafeteria. As soon as Noguchi did, Noguchi quickly switched the conversation from Japanese to English. In Noguchi book about Hideyo Noguchi, Du Soumyo wrote that Noguchi was impressed by Noguchi's true international manners and Noguchi international character ("Biographies of China's Great Doctors," Chu Kou Shinsho).
If you do not have the will, you will never set foot on this land again (words carved on a pillar in Noguchi parents' house in Inawashiro when Noguchi moved to Tokyo as a young man).
The greatest happiness in life is the harmony of the family. There is nothing more important than living in the love of a happy parent and child, brother and sister, teacher and student, and friend.
Hard work, study, that's genius. Noguchi who studies three, four, or five times harder than anyone else, that is a genius.
Imagining that you are in the depths of despair, whining and despairing will only hinder your success and, besides, disturb your peace of mind.
One cannot stand in this world with ability alone. It is necessary to have moral virtue along with ability.
It is the outstanding characteristic of the Japanese people to start from imitation and extend to originality. It is also a robust ability.
Napoleon slept only three hours (colloquialism)
It is gatakiu (colloquialism) to be great
I am not here to teach. I came to learn. (When I visited Brazil)
I'm happy if I can do what I want to do as hard as I can and help others with it.
I was born into this world to do something.
Learning is a kind of gambling.
Being disabled is not a problem in academia.
I will cross dangerous bridges for the sake of honor.
You can't change the past, nor do you want to. The only thing you can change in life is yourself and your future.
Patience is bitter. But its fruit is sweet. (Original French)
Heroic Retirement Parents (attached to photo with Hoshiichi)
We should know that a person's lifetime of happiness and disasters are created from himself, and that the people around Noguchi and the circumstances around Noguchi are shadows created by Noguchi.
Matemi: If you bloom and fall, what plum blossoms (a poem I composed when I was an assistant at Juntendo Medical Center)
Honesty is the best way.



Hirobumi Ito (formerly Ito󠄁 Hiroshi󠄁 Bun󠄁; September 2, 1841 - October 26, 1909) was a Japanese politician of the Meiji era. Ito was a Japanese politician of the Meiji era (1868-1912), and a first-ranked duke of the Supreme Order.

Ito is known for having served four times as Prime Minister (the first, fifth and seventh, and tenth prime ministers) during the Meiji era. In the first cabinet, Ito played a central role in drafting the Constitution of the Empire of Japan, and in the second cabinet, Ito drafted the Treaty of Shimonoseki, the peace treaty of the Sino-Japanese War. When the fourth cabinet was formed, Ito founded the Rikken Seiyukai (Constitutional Political Friends Association) and became its first president, paving the way for party politics. Ito also served as the first President of the Privy Council, the first President of the House of Peers, the first Chief of the Korean Presidency, and a former senior official.

Ito real name was Hirobumi (sometimes read as "Hakubun"). Ito signed Ito name as Ochi Sukune (越智宿禰) Hirobumi on official documents of the Meiji government. Ito childhood name was Risuke (利助), and later Ito was given the name Shun (俊英) by Shōin Yoshida, and changed it to Shunsuke (俊輔) and then to Shunsuke (春輔).
Ito was born to a peasant family in Suo Province. Ito gained the status of a low-ranking samurai with Ito father when Ito father joined the Ito family, a foot soldier in the Choshu domain.

Ito studied at Shoukasonjuku, Yoshida Shoin's private school. In 1863, Ito joined the movement for the reign of the Emperor and the expulsion of the foreigners, and in 1864, upon learning of a planned attack by the Shikoku United Fleet on the Choshu domain in London, Ito hurriedly returned to Japan and urged the feudal lord Mori Takachika to open the country, but Ito message was not well received. In the same year, Ito participated in the Kozanji Raid initiated by Takasugi Shinsaku, who was outraged by the clan leaders' response to the Shogunate's first conquest of Choshu. After Ito victory in this battle, Ito became a member of the clan's ruling faction and began to participate in the reform of the clan's government, and was mainly in charge of the clan's negotiations with foreign countries.

After the Meiji Restoration of 1868, Ito entered the government service and served as foreign affairs officer, counselor, judge of the foreign affairs bureau, and first governor of Hyogo Prefecture, etc. In 1869, Ito submitted a proposal for immediate political reform together with Mutsu Munemitsu and others, and emerged as an open-minded bureaucrat. In 1871, Ito traveled abroad as a deputy of the Iwakura Mission. During this period, Ito gained the confidence of Okubo Toshimichi.

After Ito return to Japan in 1873, Ito opposed Saigo Takamori's theory of the conquest of Korea from the standpoint of prioritizing domestic politics together with Okubo and others, and when Saigo and others went into exile in October of the same year, Ito was appointed as councilor and minister of engineering as Okubo's one arm. Ito became a central figure in the government. In 1881, Shigenobu Okuma issued a radical constitutional opinion for a British-style parliamentary government, which Ito opposed, resulting in the political upheaval of 1884, when Okuma and other open-minded bureaucrats went into opposition. After conducting constitutional research in Austria, Ito established the Institutional Intake Bureau at the Imperial Court in 1884 and became its director, and began reforming various institutions in line with the transition to a constitutional system.

In 1885, Ito established the cabinet system in place of the Grand Council of State and became the first Prime Minister of Japan (the first Ito Cabinet). In 1888, when the Privy Council was established, Ito became the chairman of the Council and deliberated on the draft of the Constitution. 1889 saw the enactment of Japan's first modern constitution, the Meiji Constitution, which was a German-style constitution with strong monarchical powers. Although it was a German-style constitution with strong monarchical powers, Ito emphasized that the significance of constitutional government lay in the limitation of monarchical power and the protection of civil rights, thus demonstrating a constitutionalist understanding of the constitution.

When the Imperial Diet was established in 1890, Ito became the first Speaker of the House of Peers (for the first session only), and in 1892, Ito formed the second Ito Cabinet, which was close to the Liberal Party, the leading party in the House of Representatives. During the Sino-Japanese War, Ito was present at the Imperial Headquarters as prime minister and signed the Sino-Japanese Peace Treaty. After the war, Ito formed a coalition government in cooperation with the Liberal Party, and in 1898 Ito formed the third Ito Cabinet, but it failed to work with the Liberal Party and the Progressive Party, and resigned when the land tax hike failed due to opposition in the Diet. Over the opposition of the other party elders, Ito promoted Shigenobu Okuma and Taisuke Itagaki as Ito successors and formed Japan's first political party cabinet (the first Okuma Cabinet). In 1900, Ito formed the Rikken Seiyukai (Constitutional Political Friends Association) and became its first president, forming the fourth Ito Cabinet. Ito paved the way for party politics under the Meiji Constitution. However, Ito resigned in 1901 due to opposition from the House of Peers and disagreement within the cabinet over financial issues.

Ito was cautious about the Anglo-Japanese alliance that took place in the same year, and visited Russia in search of cooperative trade with Russia, but failed to obtain concrete results, resulting in the promotion of the Anglo-Japanese alliance. After returning to Japan, Ito struggled with the leadership of the Seiyukai, which tried to maintain its position as an opposition party, and resigned as president in 1903 (Meiji 36), returning to Ito former position as a senator.

Although Ito was cautious about starting the Russo-Japanese War, Ito devoted himself to the problems of Korea and Manchuria after the Russo-Japanese War, and in 1905 Ito was appointed as the first Korean governor. Ito oversaw the domestic reform of Korea and its transformation into a protectorate, gradually stripping Korea of its diplomatic and domestic powers under three successive Japan-Korea Agreements. Ito was a cautious faction within the Japanese government, and while Ito saw no alternative to the protectorate status of Korea, Ito is said to have been cautious about annexing the country. However, Ito was caught in the crossfire with the Korean nationalist movement, and in 1909, after resigning from Ito post as Korean commissioner, Ito was shot and killed by Korean independence activist An Jung-geun at Harbin Station.

As an enlightened thinker, Ito is credited with modernizing Japan and, in particular, establishing constitutional government in Japan through the enactment of the Constitution and its application.
Born on September 2, 1841 as the eldest son of Juzo Hayashi (later Shigezo), a farmer in Aza Nojiri, Sukari Village, Kumage County, Suo Province (now Sukari Aza Nojiri, Hikari City, Yamaguchi Prefecture). Ito mother was Kotoko, the eldest daughter of Chozaemon Akiyama. In 1846 (Koka 5), Ito and Ito mother were sent to Hagi to live with Ito father, who had become bankrupt and moved to Hagi by himself. In Hagi, Ito attended Kubo Gorozaemon's cram school (Yoshida Toshimaro was a student of the same school), and since Ito family was poor, Ito father adopted Mizui Takebei, a warehouseman in the Choshu domain, when Ito was around 12 years old. Juzo and Hirofumi also became Ashigaru.

Ito is an only child and has no siblings (Takeo Miki was the only child of the previous prime ministers).
In February 1857, while on assignment in Sagami to guard Edo Bay, Ito became a close friend of Ryozo Kurihara, who had been assigned as Ito superior, and through Ito introduction, Ito was admitted to Shoukasonjuku under the leadership of Shouin Yoshida. Ito was taken under the care of Ito friend Toshimaro, but because of Ito low status, Ito was not allowed to step across the threshold of the school and was content to attend lectures standing outside the door.

Takakura Watanabe: "Lord Ito and others learned to read at the school, but they could not stay there for long because of their own lives and the fact that they had to do both public and private duties.
From July to October of the following year, 1858, Ito accompanied the Choshu clan to Kyoto on Shoin's recommendation. After returning to Nagasaki, Ito followed Kurihara and studied in Nagasaki until June of 1859, and in October, Kurihara introduced Ito to Katsura Kogoro (later Kido Takayoshi), Ito brother-in-law, and they moved to the Choshu clan's Edo residence. Here, Ito met Shido Monda (later Inoue Kaoru) and formed a friendship with Ito.

When Shoin was beheaded in October of the same year in the Great Ansei Incarceration, Ito, who was stationed in Edo as Katsura's handler, took charge of Ito teacher's corpse. Ito wrapped the corpse with a sash Ito had been wearing. Ito later joined Katsura, Kusaka Genzui, Takasugi Shinsaku, Inoue Kaoru, and others in the movement to exclude the emperor and the barbarians, and also began to think about going abroad, writing to Kurihara on December 7, 1861 (January 17, 1861) to request that Ito study in England.

In 1862, Ito plotted the assassination of Nagai Garaku, who advocated the idea of a union of the nobility and the military, and participated in the funeral of Kurihara, who committed suicide in August. In December, Ito participated in the burning of the British legation in Gotenyama, Shinagawa, and assassinated Hanawa Chuho and Kato Kojiro with Yamao Yozo. Ito is said to have had a muscular physique.
In 1863, Ito decided to go abroad on the recommendation of Kaoru Inoue, and on May 12, 1863, Ito traveled to England as one of the Five Great Masters of Choshu, together with Kaoru Inoue, Kinsuke Endo, Yozo Yamao, and Yakichi Nomura (later to become Masaru Inoue). It is said that Ito's luggage consisted of only one copy of the "Bilingual English-Japanese Sleeve Dictionary," which was published in 1869 and was full of errors, and Ito nightclothes. Moreover, when Ito was put on another ship in Shanghai, Ito was treated as poorly as a sailor and forced to live an arduous life at sea.

After arriving in London on September 23, Ito stayed at the residence of chemist Alexander Williamson under the care of Hugh Matheson (an entrepreneur), where Ito received instruction in English and etiquette. In London, Ito learned English, visited museums and galleries, naval facilities, and factories to broaden Ito knowledge. During Ito stay in London, Ito witnessed the overwhelming difference in national power between England and Japan, and Ito began to argue for the opening of Japan to the outside world.

In March 1864, when Ito learned of the impending attack on the Choshu domain by the combined fleet of the United States, Britain, France, and the Netherlands, Ito and Inoue Kaoru hurried back to Japan.

After landing at Yokohama on June 10, Ito returned to the Choshu domain and worked hard to avoid war. Ito met with British Minister Allcock and interpreter Ernest Satow, but despite their efforts, the Shimonoseki War (Bakan War) broke out on August 5 due to the bombardment of the combined fleets of four nations, and Choshu's gun emplacements were thoroughly destroyed.

After the war, Ito served as an interpreter for Takasugi Shinsaku, a.k.a. Shishido Gyoma, in peace negotiations with Captain Cooper on the Eurialas. When Ito made a progress report to Mori Motonori, the feudal lord's son, Ito learned of an assassination plot by the expulsionists and disappeared along with Takasugi. During these peace negotiations, Ito hands Satō a copy of the "order to enforce exclusion of foreigners" issued by the emperor and shogun to the Chōshū clan, which prompts the nations to demand reparations from the Edo shogunate.
Ito and Inoue Kaoru were appointed as foreign receptionists for the Chōshū domain in negotiations with Allcock and others, but the domain, which had suffered heavy losses in the Shimonoseki War and the Forbidden Gate Incident, began a political struggle with the righteous (innovators) faction of the expulsionists, as the secularist faction, which held to reverence for the shogunate, rose to power. Ito, who opposed both expulsion of foreigners and the shogunate, did not join either faction, but disappeared in September when Inoue was seriously injured in an attack by the secularist faction.

In November, when the Choshu domain showed its reverence for the Shogunate in the first conquest of Choshu, Takasugi and Ito followers led the Rikishi-tai (force of warriors) to raise an army in December (the Kozanji Raid). It was Ito who first rushed to Takasugi's side. Later, the Kibeitai also joined the force, and the righteous faction took control of the domain after defeating the secularist faction. Ito later reminisced about that time, saying, "If there is only one thing in my life that I can be proud of, it is that I was the first to rush to Takasugi-san's side at that time.

In 1865, Katsura took control of the clan, and Ito main work was purchasing arms and negotiating with the Satsuma clan and foreign merchants, which Ito did at Katsura's request.

In 1868, Ito was discovered by Michiyoshi Higashikuze, the president of the Foreign Affairs Bureau, and worked hard to solve the Kobe and Sakai Incidents. This was a stepping stone to success in Ito career.
After the Meiji Restoration, Ito changed Ito name to Hirobumi Ito and became a prominent member of the Choshu clique, serving in various important positions in the Meiji government, including Counsellor, Judge of the Foreign Affairs Bureau, Shogun of Finance and Shogun of Civil Affairs, first Governor of Hyogo Prefecture (elected by government), first Minister of Works, and Minister of the Imperial Household, thanks to Ito proficiency in English. This was because Ito had the backing of Kido Takayoshi, who was expected to promote reforms together with Inoue Kaoru and Okuma Shigenobu.

In January 1869, during Ito term as governor of Hyogo Prefecture, Ito dedicated the so-called "Hyogo Essay" (Kokusei Tsuname) to the prefecture,

monarchy
Returned to the Imperial Court the great authority of the soldiers and horses
Communication with all countries of the world
Granted the people the "right to freedom at will" with no distinction between upper and lower status.
Dissemination of "World Universal Scholarship"
International Cooperation and the Commandment of Expulsion of the Exclusion of Foreigners
insisted on the following.

As head of the Ministry of Industry, which was established in 1870 (Meiji 3), Ito promoted industrial development. Later, this ministry was succeeded by the Ministry of Home Affairs under the Ministry of Home Affairs under the leadership of Toshimichi Okubo. From November of the same year to May of the following year, Ito traveled to the U.S. with Kensei Yoshikawa, Genichiro Fukuchi, and others to study the central bank. After returning to Japan, Ito proposed the enactment of Japan's first monetary law, the New Currency Ordinance.

In November of the 4th year of Meiji (1871), Ito traveled to the U.S. as a deputy of the Iwakura Mission and delivered the "Hinomaru speech" in San Francisco. In March 1873, Ito traveled to Berlin and had an audience with German Emperor Wilhelm I. Ito also met with Chancellor Bismarck and was strongly influenced by Bismarck.
When Ito served as the Minister of Finance and Minister of Civil Affairs, Ito and Shigenobu Okuma strongly promoted the construction of railroads as part of their policy for promoting industrial development.

At first, Ito's "Kokusei Tsunamoku" submitted to the new government was displeasing to Okubo Toshimichi and Iwakura Tomomi because it touched on the issue of repatriation of the register, which was considered a top-secret policy within the new government at the time, and Ito was also at odds with Okubo in the dispute over the authority of the Ministry of Finance. When the Iwakura delegation began negotiations for revision of the Treaty of Inequality in the U.S., Ito returned to Japan with Okubo to obtain plenipotentiary powers, but it took Ito five months to obtain them, which worsened Ito relationship with Kido (the revision negotiations were also cancelled).

However, Ito became close with Okubo and Iwakura through Ito travels in Western Europe, and later reconciled with Kido. After returning to Japan in 1873, Ito supported Okubo, Iwakura, Kido, and others in the "Han Seikan" (conquest of Korea) movement, which put "internal rule first" and won Okubo's confidence (the political upheaval of 1873). Ito also worked with Inoue Kaoru, a close ally of Kido's, to build a bridge between Kido and Okubo, and with Itagaki Taisuke to mediate the Osaka Conference of January 1875. After Kido's death in 1877, Saigo Takamori's defeat in the Satsuma-Senan War, and Okubo's assassination in 1878, Ito succeeded to the post of Home Minister and became one of the three most influential leaders of the Meiji government after the Meiji Restoration.

In September 1879, the "Education Council" was presented and the Education Ordinance was promulgated.

In January 1881, Ito met with Kaoru Inoue and Shigenobu Okuma in Atami to discuss how to establish a constitutional system for Japan. However, when Okuma submitted Ito radical ideas in secret and began to run on Ito own, Ito decided to expel Ito from politics and began to work on Ito own agenda. Ito achieved Ito goal when Okuma went into exile on October 14, and promised to establish a Diet in 1890 (the political upheaval of 1881). Ito's gradual proposal went through, and Ito also allied with the Satsuma faction, including Kiyotaka Kuroda and Cudamichi Saigo, creating a system in which Ito was virtually at the center. On the other hand, when Tsuyoshi Inoue, under the direction of Iwakura, proposed the adoption of a constitution based on the Prussian Constitution in opposition to the Okuma plan, Ito rejected the proposal because Inoue was impatient to enact a constitution and had not specifically discussed how to establish a foreign constitution in Japan, and also because Inoue was going beyond the pale by encouraging Ito superior, Ito, to enact a constitution. This was because Inoue was in a hurry to enact a constitution and had not specifically discussed how to establish a foreign constitution in Japan.

On March 3, 1882, Ito was ordered by Emperor Meiji to go to Europe to study the Constitution. On March 14, Ito departed for Europe accompanied by Kawashima Jyun, Hirata Tousuke, Yoshida Masaharu, Yamazaki Naotane, Miyoshi Tatsuzo, Iwakura Tomotsune, Hirohashi Kenko, Saionji Kimimochi, Ito Miyoji and other members. At first, Ito asked Rudolf von Gneist, a scholar of public law at the University of Berlin, to teach Ito about the Prussian Constitution, and then Ito received an article-by-article lecture on the Prussian Constitution from Albert Mosse. Later, Ito studied historical jurisprudence and public administration under Lorenz von Stein, professor of state studies and constitutional law at the University of Vienna. Upon Ito return to Japan, Ito established the modern cabinet system and played a central role in drafting and enacting the Constitution of the Empire of Japan.

In February 1885, Ito was sent to Qing to deal with the aftermath of the Gapsin Incident in Korea, and signed the Treaty of Tianjin with Li Hongzhang on April 18.
When the cabinet system was introduced in December 1885, much attention was focused on who would become the first prime minister. The consensus was that it was Sanjo Sanetomi, who nominally headed the government as Grand Minister of State, and Ito, who established the cabinet system as de facto Prime Minister after Okubo's death. Sanjo, however, was a duke of noble birth, born of the Sanjo family, a legitimate descendant of the Kanyin school of the Fujiwara no Hokke and a member of the Seika family. Ito, on the other hand, came from a humble background as a poor farmer who became a samurai just before the Meiji Restoration, and although Ito was made a count by a generous grant, the difference between the two was obvious.

At a meeting held at the Imperial Court to decide who would replace the Grand Minister of State as the first prime minister, Inoue Kaoru, a close ally of Ito, interjected, "The prime minister from now on must be able to read red telegrams (foreign telegrams)," to which Yamagata Aritomo agreed, "In that case, there is no one better than Ito. The conservative councilors who supported Sanjo had nothing to say in reply. In other words, Ito's English language ability was the deciding factor in Ito becoming the first Prime Minister of Japan. Thereafter, Ito would serve as prime minister four times.

Ito inauguration at the age of 44 years and 2 months is the youngest of all Japanese prime ministers as of 2022 (Fumimaro Konoe was the second youngest at 45, and Shinzo Abe was 52 under the current constitution). This is the latest in a long line of prime ministers, and even cabinet ministers, who have been gradually removed from government service since the Meiji Restoration.

In the first Ito cabinet, Ito worked hard to establish institutions to prepare for the promulgation of the Constitution. In February 1886 (Meiji 19), Ito established the government ministries, in March 1886 (Meiji 19), Ito established the Imperial University (now the University of Tokyo) to train future bureaucrats, and in March the following year, Ito supported the establishment of the National Academy. Inoue Kaoru was appointed Minister of Foreign Affairs and was entrusted with the task of revising treaties. However, the inclusion of foreign judges in the revision draft proposed by Inoue Kaoru led to the problem of appointing foreign judicial officers, causing a split in the cabinet. It ended in failure when Inoue Kaoru resigned in September. In June of the same year, Ito began studying a draft of the Constitution with Ito Miyoji, Inoue Tsuyoshi, Kaneko Kentaro, and others at Natsushima.

Ito also invited Francis Piggott, a barrister and son-in-law of Jasper Wilson Jones, a member of the British Liberal Party and a railroad entrepreneur, to be Ito legal advisor, including on constitutional law, and included many of Piggott's articles (Japanese translation) in the "Compilation of Secretaries" Ito later published. Jones' daughter Mabel, Piggott's wife, founded the Colonial Nursing Association in 1896, which Winston Churchill supported as a new member of Congress.

On April 28, 1888, Ito resigned as prime minister to become the first president of the Privy Council when it was established.
On February 11, 1889, the Constitution of the Empire of Japan was promulgated under the Kuroda Cabinet. On this occasion, Ito delivered a speech on the Constitution at a meeting of the nobility, in which Ito stressed the importance of constitutional government, especially the importance of involving the general public in politics. In June, Ito also published "Constitutional Giyouka (Constitutional Law). In 1892 (Meiji 25), Ito advocated the formation of a political party based on the Taiseikai, a party of bailiffs, but was defeated by the opposition of the Meiji Emperor. At this time, Ito was president of the Privy Council.
While Ito was serving as prime minister for the second time since 1892 (25th year of Meiji), the Kabo Peasants' War (Tongak Party Rebellion) in Korea led to a clash with the Qing army in July, resulting in a disagreement over Korean sovereignty and the Sino-Japanese War in August. The following year, in April 1895, Ito and Mutsu Munemitsu signed the Treaty of Shimonoseki (Treaty of Magan), a peace treaty, as ambassador plenipotentiary with Li Hongzhang at Chunpanro, Shimonoseki. Before the war, Mutsu also signed a treaty with Great Britain specifying the abolition of extraterritoriality, which was a major step forward in the revision of the treaty.

The Treaty of Shimonoseki, which stipulated the independence of Korea (Article 1) and the cession of the Liaodong Peninsula, among other things, triggered the Tripartite Pact between Germany, France, and Russia. The second Ito cabinet decided to abandon the Liaodong Peninsula, and the following year, on August 31, 1896, Ito resigned as prime minister.
In January 1898, the third Ito cabinet was formed, dissolving the House of Representatives in June and announcing Ito intention to form a new political party at a cabinet meeting, but Ito resigned as prime minister in the face of opposition from Aritomo Yamagata. In August of the same year, Ito left Nagasaki and met with King Gojong in Hanseong, Joseon; in September, Ito went to Beijing to meet with King Gyeongchin and Kang Youwei, and had an audience with Emperor Guangxu, who was working on the Boshu Transitional Law; and in October, Ito met with Jang Ji-dong and Liu Kun-ichi. During Ito stay in Beijing, Ito encountered the Boshu political upheaval on September 21, which was carried out by the conservatives, and wrote to Mrs. Umeko in Japan about the situation and Ito confusion at that time. Ito spent six months from April to October of the following year, 1899, on a nationwide tour, preparing for the founding of a political party and calling on the people to accept the constitutional system. Ito also became president of the Imperial Household System Research Bureau, which was established in the Imperial Household Ministry in 1899, and worked on the enlargement and revision of the Imperial Household Law and the enactment of official decrees.
In September 1900, Ito founded the Rikken Seiyukai (Constitutional Political Friends Association) and served as its first president, and in October 1901, the fourth Ito cabinet was formed, including many members of the Seiyukai, but the cabinet was not fully formed as a political party, leading to internal divisions, and Ito resigned in May of the following year (1901). The Seiyukai was then led by Saionji Koumou and Hara Takashi, but it became one of the two major political parties, along with the Constitutional Democratic Party, and grew to play a major role in the Taisho democracy and other movements. Ito also became a member of the House of Peers and was appointed Speaker of the House of Peers.
After the Sino-Japanese War, Ito adopted a policy of appeasement toward Russia, and together with Mutsu Munemitsu, Inoue Kaoru, and others, advocated the theory of Japan-Russia collaboration and the Manchurian-Korean exchange, arguing for non-war with Russia. At the same time, Ito opposed the Anglo-Japanese Alliance proposed by Katsura Taro, Aritomo Yamagata, and Jutaro Komura. Ito also went to Russia on Ito own to propose the Manchurian-Korean exchange, but was rejected by the Russians.

Over the Russo-Japanese War that began in 1904, Ito dispatched KENTARO KANEKO to the U.S. and asked President Theodore Roosevelt to mediate a peace treaty. This led to the Treaty of Portsmouth in 1905. In this peace agreement between Japan and Russia, Prime Minister Katsura first approached Ito, not Foreign Minister Komura, as Japan's plenipotentiary representative. The Katsura cabinet had foreseen from the outset that the terms of the peace treaty would be unacceptable to the Japanese people, and hoped that Ito, who had served as prime minister four times, would be able to allay their dissatisfaction. Ito initially expressed Ito willingness to accept the position, but Ito close associates vehemently opposed it, saying that Katsura should be given the honor of victory in the war and that it would be absurd for Ito to take sole responsibility for the public's opposition that would result from the peace process. Ito, who was well aware that negotiations would not be easy, encouraged Komura, who had been chosen as the plenipotentiary, by saying, "When you return to Japan, I alone will be there to welcome you, no matter what others may do. After the peace, Ito worked hard to deal with the postwar situation between Japan, which had won the war, and Russia, which had lost.
In November 1905, when the Second Japan-Korea Agreement established the Office of the Chief Superintendent of Korea, Ito became the first Chief Superintendent. From then on, Japan took over substantial control of Korea.

Ito was of the international cooperation-oriented camp and was often at odds with Aritomo Yamagata and the army clique including Taro Katsura and Masatake Terauchi, who were hastening to take direct control of Korea with the intention of expanding into the continent. Ito was also initially opposed to the annexation of Korea, believing that substantial governance through the creation of a protectorate would be sufficient. A recently discovered memo of Ito's dated November 1905 contains the following statement: "Until the realization of the wealth and strength of Korea," which Kyoto University professor Yukio Ito says "confirms that Hirobumi Ito had a negative view of the Japan-Korea annexation, believing that Korea should be a protectorate only until its national strength had been built up. This confirms that Hirobumi Ito had a negative view of the Japan-Korea annexation. In fact, this statement was incorporated into the "Second Japan-Korea Agreement" and signed.

Ito recognized the potential of the Korean people and hoped that Korea's national power and autonomy would increase, and Ito also devoted Ito energies to education in Korea. Japanese teachers should use their spare time to learn the Korean language. In July 1907, in front of newspaper reporters in Gyeongseong (Seoul), Ito also said, "Japan does not need to merge with Korea. Korea must be self-governed.

In Toyojiro Harada's "Lord Ito and Korea" (Nichikan Shobo, November 1909), there is a summary of Ito's speech to a Japanese journalist stationed in Korea. The "incident" refers to the secret mission to The Hague, and although there is no proof that Ito meant what Ito said in Ito speech to the Japanese journalists, Takeshi Kojima wrote, "I think it can be taken as Ito's true intention. Researchers have also taken it that way." "Ito is a skeptic about the annexation of Japan and Korea," Kojima Tsuyoshi said.
In April 1909, when Katsura Taro, the prime minister at the time, and Jutaro Komura, the foreign minister, fearfully "stated to Ito that, in light of the present situation in Korea and considering the future, there is no other way but to annex Korea," Ito replied, "When Ito heard what the two ministers had to say, Ito surprisingly stated that Ito had no objection to it. When Ito "heard what the two ministers had to say, Ito surprisingly stated that Ito had no objection to it," and Ito "endorsed the general outline" of the "policy of annexation" proposed by Katsura and Komura. Two weeks later, in a speech in Tokyo, Ito surprised the audience by suggesting annexation, saying, "We are now in a situation where we are willing to cooperate with each other and become a single family. In May of the same year, Ito resigned from the post of chief superintendent. Katsura and Komura, who had confirmed Ito's decision, drew up the "Grand Policy toward Korea" and the "Outline of Facilities for Korea," and announced their policy of annexing "Korea. Ito, who had lost all interest in the policy of protecting Korea, became President of the Privy Council for the fourth time after resigning as Chief Cabinet Secretary, and visited Korea to take the lead in dealing with the situation. Ito had the Korean government sign a memorandum on the consignment of Korean judicial and prison affairs, and also promulgated an imperial decree abolishing the Korean military. There is no evidence that Ito opposed the Cabinet decision on the annexation policy (July 6, 1909). In addition, as chief commissioner, Ito incurred the resentment of the Korean people against Japan's policies, which led to the assassination of Korean nationalist An Jung-geun. Upset by the incident, the pro-Japanese faction accelerated the annexation of Korea, but as mentioned above, the annexation policy had been decided at a cabinet meeting before the incident.
In November 1905, Ito traveled to Korea as a correspondent ambassador and concluded the Second Japan-Korea Agreement (the Korean Protectorate Treaty) based on the Treaty of Portsmouth.
On November 22, 1905, Ito was injured in Korea by a stone throwing.
In December 1905, the Office of the Commander-in-Chief of Korea was established and Ito became the first Commander-in-Chief.
In February 1906, the Japanese legation was renamed the Office of the Korean Supervisor-General, and 12 directorates and 11 branch offices were established in Korea.
June 1907, The Hague Secret Mission Incident.
In July 1907, Ito makes a speech to newspaper reporters in Gyeongseong (Seoul), saying that Japan does not need to merge with Korea.
In 1908, Ito established the Bank of Korea (later known as the Bank of Korea).
In September 1908, the Chosun Imperial Household Museum (now the National Museum of Korea) was built in Gyeongseong (Seoul).
In June 1909, Ito resigned from the position of Korean Chief of Mission.
On October 26, 1909, Ito was assassinated by An Jung-geun at Harbin Station. When this was reported in Japan, Imperial Ordinance No. 314 was promulgated to hold a state funeral on the following October 27.
One month before the assassination, Ito wrote an inscription on the monument in honor of Takasugi Shinsaku: "When Ito moves, it is like thunder and lightning; when Ito fires, it is like wind and rain; the people are so astonished that they dare not look at Ito properly. The inscription reads, "This is not our Tokogo-Takasugi-kun. In Ito speech at the reception before Ito assassination in Harbin, Ito said, "War is never in the interest of the nation.
One month before the assassination, Ito wrote an inscription on the monument in honor of Takasugi Shinsaku: "When Ito moves, it is like thunder and lightning; when Ito fires, it is like wind and rain; the people are so astonished that they dare not look at Ito properly. The inscription reads, "This is not our Tokogo-Takasugi-kun. In Ito speech at the reception before Ito assassination in Harbin, Ito said, "War is never in the interest of the nation.
On October 26, 1909, Ito was shot and killed by An Jung-geun, a nationalist activist of the Korean Empire, at Harbin Station, where Ito had visited to informally discuss Manchurian and Korean issues with Russian Finance Minister Vladimir Kokotsev (Kokovtsov).

At that time, Ito shouted, "Three shots hit me. Who is the other guy? An was captured on the spot by Russian officials. Ito had several conversations with Ito aides in the 30 minutes before Ito died, but when Ito was informed at the moment of Ito death that it was a Korean who had shot Ito, Ito is said to have muttered, "Ito was a fool to shoot me. Ito's grandson, Ito Mitsuo, is said to have muttered, "I'm no good. Did anyone else get hit? When Ito learned that Mori Keinan had also been injured, Ito said, "Mori got hit, too. ......" These were Ito's last words. Ito was 69 years old, and a state funeral was held in Hibiya Park on November 4.

An Jung-geun was immediately captured, and three of Ito accomplices, Woo De-jun, Cao Tao-sen, and Liu Dongxia, were also detained by Russian officials. The Japanese government transferred them to the District Court of the Kwantung Governor's Office, and on February 14, 1910, sentenced An to death, U to two years in prison, and Cao and Liu to one year and six months.

In addition to the theory that An Jung-geun acted alone, there are other theories regarding the assassination. Specifically, there is the theory of a plot by annexation hardliners, based on the calculation of the location of the shot from the bullet hole left in the coat Ito was wearing at the time of the assassination. According to the truth of the stage told by Chief Accompanist Yoshifumi Murota, who accompanied Ito at the time and spoke about 30 years later, the bullet buried in Ito flesh was not for An Jung-geun's Browning 7-round pistol, but for a French cavalry carbine rifle, and the direction of the hole made by the bullet was downward, which was strange, and if the bullet was from An Jung-geun, it The direction of the bullet hole was downward, which is strange, and if the bullet was from An Jung-geun, it should have been upward, and the bullet that hit Ito must have come from the cafeteria above the station. However, Murota may have been confused at the time of the incident, and in An Jung-geun's trial, Ito testified, "I heard several shots that sounded like firecrackers, but I did not realize that there was a sniper. I knew for the first time that there was a sniper, and I knew nothing else about the situation at the time of the shooting.

In another example, Finance Minister Kokotsev, who witnessed the assassination up close, immediately sent a telegram to the ambassador to Japan on the day of the assassination, stating ......The plot was clearly an organized one. Last night at the Caijiagou station our police had already arrested three suspected Koreans with Browning rifles. ......" (В.Н. Коковцов - Н.А.Малевский-Малевичу 13 октября 1909 г. //) (АВПРИ, Ф. 150, Оп. 493, Д. 171, Л. 175).

The assassination was reported by telegraph operator Hidesuke Igarashi, who received a coded telegram and called Kentaro Kaneko before receiving the full text. Ito immediately rushed to the villa in Oiso to express Ito sympathy to Mrs. Umeko, who did not shed a single tear. Ito had said that Ito could not die a satisfying death on the tatami mats, and that from the moment Ito crossed the threshold, Ito should consider this as a permanent farewell.
Burial was in the Ito Family Cemetery in Nishi-Oi 6-chome, Shinagawa-ku, Tokyo. The Ito Shrine was located in the Ito Shrine Memorial Park in Sokari, Yamato-cho, Kumage-gun, Yamaguchi Prefecture (now Sokari, Hikari City), but in 1959, the shrine was relocated to the grounds of the nearby Sokari Shrine. The memorial park includes Ito birthplace (restored), a bronze statue, the Lord Ito Memorial Hall, and the Lord Ito Museum. In May 2006, Yamaguchi Prefecture established "Lord Ito's Forest" in the mountain forest adjacent to the park, and handed it over to Hikari City using the prefectural tax for forest development. It was later adopted as the portrait on the Bank of Japan's C ¥1,000 note (issued November 1, 1963 - November 1, 1984).
The relationship between Ito, a leading national figure who served as prime minister four times, and the Meiji Emperor was not always good. During the Meiji period (1877-1886), the Emperor trusted conservative court aides such as Motoda Eifu and Sasaki Takayuki, and Ito relationship with Ito and other Dajokan leaders who promoted modernization was sometimes not smooth (Ito's later role as the first Prime Minister and Minister of the Imperial Household was to suppress conservative factions within the court and to promote the Emperor's understanding of constitutional monarchy. (In later years, Ito served as both the first Prime Minister and Minister of the Imperial Household in order to suppress the conservative faction at court and to deepen the Emperor's understanding of the constitutional monarchy.) ) When Ito formed the Rikken Seiyuukai (Constitutional Political Friends Association), the Emperor, who disliked political parties, was not pleased, and Ito had a difficult time persuading Ito to join the association.
However, Emperor Meiji trusted Ito. The Meiji Emperor's preferred character was one of rugged honesty without flattery and clean with money. Ito fit this description, and when the Meiji Emperor learned that Ito had no personal fortune, Ito gave Ito 100,000 yen in 1898. However, Ito also complained that Ito's love of geisha should be moderated, as mentioned below. Early in the morning on the day of the Imperial Conference, just before the start of the Russo-Japanese War, an imperial order came down to Ito to come to Japan immediately. When Ito came to Japan, the Emperor Meiji saw Ito in Ito night clothes and said, "I would like to hear Ito's thoughts in advance. In response, Ito said, "If it should not be to the benefit of our country, I fear that it is necessary for Ito Majesty to make serious preparations. Ito was even ordered by the Emperor not to leave Tokyo.
In 1886 (Meiji 19), Ito, keenly aware of the need for women's education, which was not well regarded at the time, established the "Founding Committee for the Encouragement of Women's Education" (later renamed the "Society for the Encouragement of Women's Education"), with himself as founding committee chairman. The committee members included businessmen Eiichi Shibusawa and Yanosuke Iwasaki, as well as Tokyo Imperial University professor James Dixon, who actively promoted women's education by founding the Tokyo Jogakkan. Ito was also asked by Jinzo Naruse, the founder of Japan Women's University, to cooperate in Ito plan to establish a women's university, which Ito did.
Ito had been in contact with Umeko Tsuda, a women's educator, since they were on the same ship during the Iwakura Mission to the United States. After returning to Japan, Tsuda was hired to teach English to Ito and interpret for Ito, and stayed with the Ito family. She also became a tutor for Ito's daughter and attended "Momo-Kei Jogaku" as an English teacher. Tsuda was recommended by Ito in 1885 (Meiji 18) to teach English at the Hanafu Girls' School, which was established independently from the Gakushuin Girls' School. She and Tsuda also hit it off, and after returning home, she and Tsuda discussed the future of the country with their tutor. From Ito's point of view, Tsuda was more of an advisor than a fellow Japanese lady.
Ito was not fussy about food, clothing, and shelter. When Saionji no Kimochi, who lived next door to Ito in Oiso, invited Ito for a meal, Ito had a hard time because the food was always so poor. Even during Ito tenure as prime minister, Ito was indifferent to the decoration of Ito own room, and when Ito received expensive curios from others, Ito would lavishly give them to others. It is said that when the servants of the prime minister's residence learned that Ito was to be the next prime minister, they all cheered for Ito.
Ito love for women was well-known even in those days, and Ito was nicknamed "Broomstick" because of the number of women with whom Ito played with. On one occasion, even the aforementioned Emperor Meiji was said to have chided Ito, saying, "You should cut back a little on your womanizing. It is said that when Ito went to the provinces, Ito often chose second- or third-rate geisha instead of first-rate ones. This was because, according to Ito's logic, "The top geisha of each region have the backing of local influential people. Even when Ito was running a fever of 40 degrees Celsius, Ito had two geisha on either side of Ito. The 16-year-old geisha Ryo from Yanagibashi competed with Emperor Taisho's uncle, Yanagihara Maemitsu, for the post, and as a result, Maemitsu surrounded her and gave birth to Yanagihara Hakuren. In a series of newspapers published by Miyatake Gaibei, Ito often used the technique of parody to describe such a situation as a typical example of a lustful man. In reality, however, Ito did not have that many children. Takeaki Matsumoto, a member of the House of Representatives, is one of Ito descendants.
Incidentally, Ito is said to be the first person in Japan to have car sex.
There is a photo of Ito and Ito wife Umeko wearing Korean national costume. As Chief Superintendent of Korea, Ito wore the national costume of the Korean people. Ito also invited the Crown Prince of Korea, Lee Bong, to Japan to teach Ito the Japanese language.
Erwin von Bälz, a German physician who was a foreigner in Ito employ, wrote in "Bälz's Diary" that Ito, halfway through a meeting, turned to Prince Takehito Arisugawa and said, "It is utterly unlucky to be born Crown Prince. Ito said, "Ito is born early, or Ito is bound by the chains of ceremony everywhere, and when Ito grows up, Ito must be made to dance to the whistle blown by Ito entourage.
Initially, Ito was named "Risuke," taking "Ri" and "Suke" from Ito great-grandfathers "Rihachiro" and "Sukezaemon," but it was also read "Toshisuke" and written "Shunsuke" from the sound of "Toshisuke," which in turn was read "Shunsuke," which in turn was written "Harusuke" from its sound, This time, it was read as "Shunpo," so the name was finally changed to "Shunpo.
In 1888, Ito enjoyed eating fugu in Shimonoseki in spite of opposition from those around Ito, and is said to have told the then governor of Yamaguchi Prefecture that Ito wanted to lift the ban on the consumption of fugu, which had been considered a poisonous fish since ancient times and had been banned even after the Meiji Restoration.
In Hagi, Risuke was a "kowakatō" (a small party of young men) who did miscellaneous work for the various families of the feudal domain. One day, Juzo secretly observed Risuke at work. Twelve-year-old Risuke was alone at night in a room near the Fukuhara family's front door when Ito noticed Ito father's figure and tried to cling to Ito with tears in Ito eyes. The father scolded Ito severely and left.
During the time Ito was in the service of the Kodama family, Ito master was visiting another family and came home to borrow some footwear because it was snowing. The master ordered Risuke to return the footwear to the destination. Risuke braved the heavy snow and on Ito way home, Ito was so cold that Ito decided to stop by Ito parents' house. However, Ito father turned Ito away without even giving Ito a cup of hot water.
At the beginning of "Biography of Hirobumi Ito," there is a section titled "Genealogy of the Dukes of Ito. It is nine pages long and states that the founder of the family was Emperor Koryo.
At the time, Oiso was lined with the villas of Ito and other politicians, and the following anecdote about Ito's personality remains in the area: "Yamagata was accompanied by an escort, and Mutsu strolled around with a walking stick. While Yamagata was escorted by an escort and Mutsu strolled around with a walking stick, Hirobumi Ito walked alone in plain clothes, sometimes wearing a kimono with a kimono cloak, stopping at farmers to talk to them, asking about the price of rice and vegetables, and sometimes sitting in a field talking to an elderly person about Ito daily life. Farmers and fishermen in the village would casually call Ito "Teisho" and talk to Ito.
In formulating the Constitution, Ito said to the officials in charge, "In formulating the new Constitution, Ito is a jurist, and you are also a jurist. Therefore, if you think that my opinion is wrong, you must express your opinion as wrong. Letting opinions be disputed is what will make the new Constitution complete. This is said to be an unusual insight for a politician of the era, which had a stronger sense of privilege than today.
Naohiko Seki "Count Ito is also fond of cigars. When I was president of the Tokyo Nichinichi Shimbun, Ito often visited me and gave me a copy of Ito own translation of the Constitution after the Constitution was promulgated. Ito went to Yokohama and presented two boxes (50 cigars) at a cigar shop in a Western-style house for about one yen each (before the monopoly, they were far superior to today's two yen cigars). About ten days later, when I visited Ito again, Ito was in a good mood and said, "Seki, I heard that you also like cigars, so I will share one of my good cigars with you. Ito was so proud of it that Ito gave it to me. Ito was so proud of it that Ito gave it to me. It is truly understandable that Ito would forget such a small matter as who gave Ito what, as Ito only had the nation in Ito mind. As for me, I am very happy to know that what I have presented to you has met the wishes of the Lord.
Hirokichi Matsui
Ito usually had a light Western meal for lunch, but in the evening Ito mainly ate Japanese food and sometimes Western food. Sake was sake and Japanese sake. Ito smoked cigars, which cost about fifty cents each in those days, and smoked until Ito beard burned.
Ito had a deep appreciation for the tea ceremony from Ito early days, and was also an excellent cook at tea ceremonies. Whenever Ito had guests over, Ito would go to the kitchen to taste the plum blossoms and direct the chefs. After Ito death, the chefs of the same family opened a ryotei restaurant in Azabu Sakuradacho called Kozu-an, which delighted gourmets with the skill of the knife trained by the lord. Many of the guests had ties to the prince, including Lord Yamagata, Shichiroko Sugisugi, and others, who all signed their own names in the guest book, and although the restaurant is small, it has become one of the Imperial Capital's specialties.
Takeko Yoshida: "The Duke loves the biwa more than anything else, so much so that Ito makes himself play it every day and takes great pleasure in listening to it.
Hirobumi Ito was a moderate, open-minded man with a rich international outlook, and is credited with modernizing Japan, especially in establishing constitutional government in Japan through the enactment of the Constitution and its application.

Ito was regarded as an open-minded person from the beginning of the Meiji era, and led the modernization of various institutions and the shift to a constitutional system. At the time of the establishment of the Diet, Ito initially tried to ignore political parties by declaring Ito "supernaturalism." However, when Ito realized the necessity of a party cabinet based on Ito experience in the early Diet, Ito took the initiative in organizing a political party.

Ito is highly regarded by Western countries as the creator of Asia's first constitutional system and the first parliamentary politician to serve on that system.

From 1882 to the following year, Ito visited Germany, Austria, the United Kingdom, and other European countries to conduct constitutional research. At that time, Ito was not only fixated on the German-Austrian model, which had weak parliamentary power, but also had the British model, which had strong parliamentary power, in mind for the future. After enacting the Meiji Constitution in 1889 (Meiji 22), Ito overcame several constitutional crises with the understanding of the Emperor Meiji and maintained the constitutional system without suspending the Constitution. Even Germany was forced to suspend its constitution once, and Ito continued to be highly regarded as the father of constitutionalism and parliamentary politics by the United Kingdom and other Western countries.

In foreign affairs, based on a cool-headed political realism, Ito emphasized a course of international cooperation and was cautious about starting the Russo-Japanese War and annexing Korea. On the other hand, Ito sometimes took a hard-line stance in Ito policies toward Korea and China, and Ito conducted coercive negotiations to realize Japan's interests in the Sino-Japanese War peace negotiations and in Ito policy toward Korea after the Russo-Japanese War.

Ito's moderate political line often conflicted with conservative bureaucrats such as Aritomo Yamagata, who criticized Ito's diplomacy as soft diplomacy and reacted negatively to Ito's formation of a political party. Ito was the most powerful of the former governors during the Meiji period and had a great influence on domestic and foreign policies. Ito cheerful and open-minded character made Ito popular among the people, but because Ito did not form a strong faction, Ito influence in domestic politics in Ito later years was inferior to that of Aritomo Yamagata, who formed a wide network of factions.
Fear the man who is too strong, for Ito is not capable of doing anything if Ito does not have the courage and taste to say and do it.
All of today's studies are practical. The studies of the past were, in all likelihood, false.
If you want to accomplish anything under the world, you must put your life on the line at all times. Do not be eager to ask for help. Do it on your own.
I will not force you to follow in my footsteps. If it is your birthright, I will not be saddened if you become a beggar. Nor will I rejoice if you become rich.
Even if I study here and achieve success, what good is it if my country of birth is destroyed?"
True patriotism and courage are not the kind of things that make your shoulders slouch or your eyes glaze over in anger."
It is often the empty opinions of the untested that casually discuss diplomacy as it pertains to national security and survival and think they can do whatever they want.
We have no history. Our history begins here and now.
Tsubakigashi, Hagi, Yamaguchi - Former residence of Hirobumi Ito. Formerly the residence of Takebei Mizui (Naoemon Ito), a middleman of the Hagi clan. Hirobumi Ito lived here from 1854, when Ito father, Jyuzo Hayashi, was adopted by the Ito family.
Hikari City, Yamaguchi Prefecture - Birthplace (restored) - Restored in 1991 in Lord Ito Memorial Park.
Kobe City, Hyogo Prefecture - Kihachiro Okura's villa (now Okurayama Park) - This was the villa of Kihachiro Okura, but was used exclusively by Ito, who was a close friend of the family.
Nishi-Oi, Shinagawa-ku, Tokyo (former Ito-cho, Oi) - Former residence of Hirobumi Ito. The former Akasaka Temporary Imperial Palace dining hall given by Emperor Meiji was moved to Nishi-Oi (Oi-mura, Ebara-gun, Tokyo) and named the Onshikan (later the Meiji Kinenkan). Hirokuni Ito and Ito family lived there. After the house was transferred to the Count Uesugi family, it was owned by Nippon Kogaku Kogyo (Nikon). Due to aging, the house was dismantled in 1998, and the entrance, hall, and separate tatami room were moved to Hagi City, Yamaguchi Prefecture.
Takanawa 4-chome, Minato-ku, Tokyo (Kaitokaku) - Former residence of Hirobumi Ito. Later owned by the Iwasaki family of Mitsubishi Zaibatsu.
Nishi-Koiso, Oiso Town, Kanagawa Prefecture (Cangan-kaku) - Former residence of Hirobumi Ito. A villa was built in Odawara-cho, Kanagawa Prefecture, and later moved to the nearby town of Oiso, where it became the main residence. After Ito's death, it was transferred to the Lee Wang family (the imperial family of the Korean Empire). Collapsed by the Great Kanto Earthquake and rebuilt.
Nojima Park, Nojima-cho, Kanazawa-ku, Yokohama - Former Ito Hirobumi Kanazawa Villa. Completed in 1898. Visited by Crown Prince Kahito (later Emperor Taisho) in 1903. In 1908, Crown Prince Iemin (Lee Yuan), Emperor of the Republic of Korea, visited the residence.
In 1901, the invitees to Hirobumi Ito's 60th birthday celebration decided to build a bronze statue of Hirobumi Ito, but it was delayed for a long time as it had to be redone due to poor workmanship. Four days later, the Yomiuri Shimbun carried a satirical article with illustrations titled "Aha, Ugoshin Soft Monkey" about the fact that the statue was erected even though Ito was still alive, and that it was more conspicuous than Masanari Kusunoki, who was originally honored in the shrine.

On September 7, 1905, after the Russo-Japanese War, people who were dissatisfied with the content of the peace treaty held a speech meeting at the Daikokuza Theater, and a group of angry people who had reached the Minatogawa Shrine brought tools and struck the statue on the head, wrapped chains (which had been cut around the statue) around it and pulled it down. Inspired by the sight of the three men trying to topple the statue, dozens of people gathered before they knew it and pulled the statue down. A crowd of about 100 people, amused by what they saw, dragged the statue around and destroyed a police station on the street. When the crowd was finally driven away by police and the statue was recovered, it was said to have a "chapped nose, three holes in the face, a hollowed head, numerous bruises all over the body, and urine on the head. In addition to the statue itself, the surrounding objects were also damaged: the aforementioned chain was broken, the stone pillar that served as a fence stake was pulled out and broken, and the founder's name plate was crushed.

The statue was then taken by the police to Misaoie, which was being used as a quarantine station, the morning after the riot, and was not shown to the public for several years until the assassination of Ito himself. In fact, it was rebuilt on October 26, 1911, not in Suwayama but in Okurayama, and not repaired but newly built.

Natsume Soseki (February 9, 1867 - December 9, 1916) was a Japanese teacher, novelist, critic, English literature scholar, and haiku poet.

Real name: Natsume Kinnosuke. Soseki haiku name is Gudabutsu. Active from the late Meiji to the early Taisho period, Soseki is one of the great writers of modern Japanese literature who created the modern written language of katakana that is accepted today.

Soseki representative works include "I am a Cat," "Botchan," "Sanshiro," "Sankara," "Kokoro," and "Mei An. As a great writer of the Meiji era, Soseki portrait was used on the 1,000-yen bill of Japan.

My Individualism" in Soseki lecture notes. Soseki's students gathered at Soseki private residence for a meeting called the Thursday Club.

While in college, Soseki met Masaoka Shiki and studied haiku.

After graduating from the English Literature Department of Imperial University (later Tokyo Imperial University, now Tokyo University), Soseki worked as a teacher at Ehime Prefectural Junior High School in Matsuyama and as a professor at the Fifth Higher School in Kumamoto, before going to England to study. Soseki lived in Camden and Lambeth in Greater London.

After returning to Japan, Soseki taught English literature as a lecturer at Tokyo Imperial University.
Kinnosuke Natsume was born on February 9, 1867 (January 5, Keio 3) in Ushigome-Babashita, Edo (present-day Kikui-cho, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo), the youngest son (fifth son) of Naokatsu and Chie Natsume Kobee, a feudal lord and Soseki wife. Soseki father, Naokatsu, was a feudal lord who ruled the area from Ushigome to Takadanobaba in Edo (present-day Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo). Soseki was quite powerful and well-to-do, handling public affairs and adjudicating most civil suits at Soseki doorstep. However, Soseki mother, Chie, is said to have been ashamed of her mother, saying that she was "ungraceful" because she had many children and gave birth at an advanced age.

Soseki name, "Kinnosuke," was written with the Chinese character for "gold" to ward off bad luck, since the day of Soseki birth fell on the day of the 57th day of the sexagenary cycle, and there was a superstition that a baby born on this day would become a great thief. At around the age of three, Soseki contracted pox (smallpox), and the smallpox scars Soseki bore at that time remained conspicuously visible.

Kinnosuke's grandfather, Naoki Natsume, was a spendthrift and spendthrift, and it is said that when Soseki died, Soseki died drunk on a bottle of sake. However, as a result of the efforts of Soseki father Naokatsu, the Natsume family was able to acquire a substantial fortune. Nevertheless, it was a period of turmoil after the Meiji Restoration, and the Natsume family was probably in the process of falling from grace. Kinnosuke was sent as a foster child to an antique dealer (one theory is that Soseki was a grocer) in Yotsuya soon after Soseki birth. It is said that Soseki older sister took pity on Soseki when she saw Soseki sleeping next to her goods until midnight, and brought Soseki back to her parents' house.
Kinnosuke was adopted by Masanosuke Shiobara in November 1868 (the first year of Meiji). Shiobara was a man who served Naokatsu like a scribe, but Soseki seemed to have something to offer, so Naokatsu had Soseki marry a woman named "Yasu," also a servant, and bought her a share in the Shinjuku feudal lord's stock. However, the Shiobara family became discordant when Masanosuke's problems with women came to light, and Kinnosuke temporarily returned to Soseki birthplace with Soseki adoptive mother when Soseki was 7 years old. For a time, Soseki thought of Soseki biological parents as Soseki grandparents.

Due to the divorce of Soseki adoptive parents, Kinnosuke returned to Soseki birth family at the age of 9, but due to a conflict between Soseki biological father and adoptive father, Soseki return to the Natsume family was delayed until Soseki was 21. Thus, Soseki's childhood was full of turmoil. After Soseki joined the Asahi Shimbun, Soseki relationship with Soseki adoptive father continued until Soseki father's death, as Soseki was asked for money. Soseki relationship with Soseki adoptive parents was also the subject of Soseki later autobiographical novel, "Michikusa.

In 1874, after entering the eighth grade of the Asakusa Kotobuki-cho Toda Gakko lower elementary school, Kinnosuke was repeatedly transferred to Ichigaya Gakko and then to Kinka Elementary School, although it is said that the reason Soseki moved to Kinka Elementary School was to enter the First Middle School of Tokyo Prefecture.
At the age of 12, Soseki entered the regular course of Tokyo Prefectural First Middle School (Prefectural First Middle School, now Tokyo Metropolitan Hibiya High School). Because Soseki was enrolled in the regular course, which did not offer English classes, which were required for the entrance examination to the Preparatory Department of University (later Daiichi High School), and because Soseki wanted to study Chinese studies and literature, Soseki dropped out of junior high school in 1881 (Meiji 14) after only two years of study and entered a private Chinese studies school, Nishogakusa (currently Nishogakusa University). However, Soseki did not want to be blamed by Soseki eldest brother, Daisuke Natsume, so Soseki pretended to go to Ichichu with Soseki lunch box after dropping out of junior high school. Soseki's mother, Chie, died just before Soseki dropped out of junior high school, and it has been pointed out that the shock of her death and Soseki enrollment in Nishimatsu Gakusha may have been deeply connected inside Soseki.

However, partly because Soseki eldest brother Daisuke was opposed to Soseki pursuit of literature, Soseki dropped out of Nishogakusha after only one year. Daisuke had dropped out of the University of the South due to illness and was working as a translator for the Tokyo Metropolitan Police Department, but Soseki was determined to fulfill Soseki wish to revive the Natsume family by having Soseki youngest brother, Kinnosuke, who was very talented, graduate from university and rise to prominence.

Two years later, in 1883, Kinnosuke entered the Seigaku Gakusha, an English language school in Surugadai, Kanda, to study English, where Soseki distinguished himself.


Soseki in Soseki days as a university preliminaries student
In 1884 (Meiji 17), Soseki successfully entered the preparatory course for the Preparatory Department of the University. On the day of Soseki entrance examination, Soseki was fortunate that a friend sitting next to Soseki had quietly given Soseki the answers to Soseki questions. Soseki did not pass the exam. One of Soseki lodging companions during Soseki time at the university's Preparatory Department was Korekou Nakamura, who later became the president of the Manchurian Railway Company. During Soseki time at the Poseimon, Kinnosuke organized the "Jumin-kai" (Ten People's Association) with other graduates of the Seikatsugakusha, including Korekyo Nakamura, Tatsujin Ota, Tomokuma Sato, Sagoro Hashimoto, Kojuro Nakagawa, and others.

In 1886 (Meiji 19), the university preparatory department was renamed the Daiichi Koto Junior High School. That year, Kinnosuke suffered from appendicitis and was unable to take the examination for advancement to the second level of the preparatory course, and failed the course along with Korekoh. Thereafter, Soseki supported himself by teaching at private schools such as Koto Gijuku. Thereafter, Soseki worked hard academically and was at the top of Soseki class in almost all subjects. Soseki excelled especially in English.
In 1889, Kinnosuke met Shiki Masaoka, a haiku poet who was to have a profound literary and personal influence on Soseki. When Shiki's collection of Chinese poetry and haiku, "Nanakusa-shu," was circulated among Soseki schoolmates, Kinnosuke wrote a critique of it in Chinese at the end of the book, which marked the beginning of a full-fledged friendship between the two. This was the first time Soseki used the title Soseki. The name "Soseki" was taken from a legend in the Tang Dynasty's "Jinshu" (Book of the Jin Dynasty), "Soseki makuraryu," which is a metaphor for a sore loser and an eccentric person. Soseki" was one of Shiki's many pen names, which Soseki later inherited from Shiki.

In September of the same year, Soseki asked Shiki to critique Soseki travelogue "Kigusu-roku," which Soseki had written in Chinese on Soseki trip to Boshu (Boso Peninsula), and they gradually deepened their relationship. Shiki was surprised to see Soseki's excellent Chinese writing and poems. Thereafter, Soseki and Shiki continued to communicate with each other until Shiki's death in 1902, while Soseki was studying in England.
In 1890, Soseki entered the English Literature Department of the soon-to-be-founded Imperial University (later to become Tokyo Imperial University). In March 1887, Soseki was bereaved of Soseki eldest brother Daisuke, and in June of the same year Soseki was bereaved of Soseki second brother Einosuke Natsume. In June of the same year, Soseki was bereaved of Soseki second brother, Einosuke Natsume. In June of the same year, Soseki was bereaved of Soseki second brother, Einosuke Natsume, and soon after, in 1891, Soseki was bereaved of Soseki third brother, Kazaburo Natsume's wife, Toze. Soseki is said to have been in love with Nobuyo (according to Jun Eto's theory), and deeply traumatized by her, Soseki composed dozens of poems expressing Soseki feelings for her.

In 1892, Soseki moved to Iwanai-cho, Hokkaido, to escape military service as a loan student. Around May of the same year, Soseki began earning Soseki own tuition money by teaching at the Tokyo Senmon Gakko (now Waseda University).

Shiki wrote in Soseki essay "A Drop of Sumi Ink," "What surprised me at the time was that Soseki did not know that the rice we eat in our daily lives is the fruit of this seedling.

On July 7, Soseki took advantage of the summer vacation of the university to make Soseki first trip to the Kansai region with Shiki, who was returning to Matsuyama. After taking an overnight train to Shinbashi, they arrived in Kyoto on the 8th, stayed two nights, parted ways with Shiki in Kobe on the 10th, and arrived in Okayama on the 11th. In Okayama, Soseki stayed for about a month at the Kataoka Ki residence, the family home of Kokatsu, the wife of Soseki second brother, Einosuke. During this period, on July 19, Soseki received a letter from Shiki in Matsuyama stating that Soseki was leaving school because Soseki had failed Soseki final exam. Soseki wrote a letter that afternoon urging Soseki to change Soseki mind, and included the phrase, "If it cries, it will cry at the full moon, hottogisu. Later, on August 10, Soseki left Okayama for Shiki's house in Matsuyama. At Shiki's house, Soseki met Kyoshi Takahama, then 15 years old, who would later lead Soseki to become a professional writer. Shiki dropped out of college in March 1893.
In 1893, Soseki graduated from Imperial University and became an English teacher at the Higher Normal School, but Soseki began to feel uncomfortable with the idea of a Japanese person studying English literature. The aforementioned incident of a broken heart two years earlier and the pulmonary tuberculosis that would be discovered the following year also coincided, and Soseki began to suffer from extreme nervous breakdown and obsessive thoughts. Soseki then sought treatment at Engakuji Temple in Kamakura under the guidance of Shaku Soen, but this was ineffective.
In 1895 (Meiji 28), Soseki resigned from the Higher Normal School to escape from Tokyo, and was assigned as an English teacher at the Ehime Prefectural Junior High School (formerly Matsuyama Junior High School, now Matsuyama Higashi High School) through the arrangement of Torao Suga. Matsuyama was Shiki's hometown, and Soseki spent about two months there. During this period, Soseki devoted himself to haiku writing with Shiki, and left behind many fine works. During Soseki assignment, Soseki stayed at the Gudabutsuan Hermitage, where Masaoka Shiki also stayed for 52 days. Soseki joined the haiku society "Shofukai" and held haiku meetings, which is said to have influenced Soseki's later literature.

In 1896, Soseki was assigned as an English teacher at the Fifth High School (the predecessor of Kumamoto University) in Kumamoto City (monthly salary of 100 yen). On the advice of Soseki relatives, Soseki married Kagamiko, the eldest daughter of Shigekazu Nakane, the chief secretary of the House of Peers, but their married life was not smooth sailing, as in the third year Kagamiko became hysterical due to the unfamiliar environment and a miscarriage, and attempted to throw herself into Shirakawaigawabuchi. Outside of the family life, Soseki was also active in the haiku world and rose to fame.

In 1898, Torahiko Terada and other students at Five High School founded the haiku association Shimei Ginsha, led by Soseki, and taught haiku. The company produced many haiku poets and influenced the haiku world in Kyushu and Kumamoto.
In May 1900, Soseki was ordered by the Ministry of Education to study in England to research English teaching methods (not English literature). In Soseki first report to the Ministry of Education, Soseki wrote, "The high cost of living makes living difficult, and I do not feel deprived with 15 Chinese pounds for studying in England," indicating that the government-supplied tuition fees were problematic. Soseki often read Meredith and Dickens. Soseki decided that university lectures were "not worth paying for," so Soseki stopped attending English literature classes at University College London and took private lessons with William James Craig, a Shakespeare scholar who also appeared in "Eternal Pieces," and also studied "Literary Theory. However, Soseki discomfort with the study of English literature returned, and Soseki began to suffer a nervous breakdown again. Soseki moved from one lodgings to another several times, stating, "I spend my evenings on the third floor of my lodgings, pondering the future of Japan. ...... During this stay in London, Soseki visited the Tower of London and wrote an essay entitled "London Tower.

In 1901, Soseki moved in with the chemist Kikunae Ikeda for two months, which gave Soseki a new stimulus, and Soseki began to devote himself to Soseki research alone in Soseki lodgings. In September 1902, when Yaichi Haga and others visited Soseki, Soseki said, "I want to return home as soon as possible. Perhaps because of this, a rumor circulated within the Ministry of Education that Natsume had gone insane. Soseki was ordered to return to Japan on short notice, leaving London on December 5 of the same year. Kiichi Saito, a psychiatrist who had completed Soseki studies in Germany, happened to be on board the ship upon Soseki return. When Soseki's relatives learned of the psychiatrist's presence on the ship, they became increasingly concerned, believing it to be due to Soseki's mental illness.

Opposite Soseki's last boarding house at that time, the Soseki Memorial Museum London was established by Ikuo Tsunematsu in 1984. The museum exhibited Soseki's lodgings, the people Soseki met, and the books Soseki read, and was open to the public. However, due to the impact of the United Kingdom's move to leave the European Union, the museum was closed at the end of September 2016. By strong demand from Soseki fans, the museum reopened on May 8, 2019, in a partially renovated Tsunematsu house in Surrey, a southern suburb of London.
On January 20, 1903, Soseki returned from Soseki studies in the U.K. On March 3, Soseki moved to 57, Komagome Sendagi-cho, Hongo, Tokyo (currently 2-20-7 Mukogaoka, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, about 10 minutes walk from Sendagi Station. Currently Nippon Medical School Alumni Hall. There is a monument on the premises). At the end of the same month, Soseki resigned from Soseki position as a professor at Fifth High School, where Soseki had been registered. In April of the same year, Soseki became a lecturer at Daiichi High School and Tokyo Imperial University (annual salary: 700 yen for high school and 800 yen for university). The head of the First High School at that time was Soseki close friend, Kano Torukichi.

Soseki's hard, analytical lectures were unpopular with Soseki predecessor, Yakumo, whose lectures instantly enveloped and intoxicated the entire classroom with a poetic atmosphere once Soseki opened Soseki mouth, and students campaigned to retain Yakumo's position and criticized Soseki behind Soseki back for complaining. Some students, like Jun Kawada, switched to law, saying, "There is nothing to learn in the literature department without Mr. Herne.

A few days after Soseki reprimanded Misao Fujimura for Soseki bad attitude during a class, Fujimura committed suicide by drowning himself in the Kegon Falls. Soseki was the first to speak out against Toson. Soseki mentioned and criticized Toson in "Kusamakura" (The Pillow of Grass).

In 1904 (Meiji 37), Soseki regained some composure and became a lecturer at Meiji University (at a salary of 30 yen). Soseki also worked as a lecturer at Meiji University (monthly salary: 30 yen).
At the end of that year, Kyoko Takahama encouraged Soseki to write a creative work as part of Soseki treatment for a nervous breakdown, and Soseki wrote "I am a Cat," which would become Soseki first novel. It was first published in Shiki's student group "Yama-kai," and was well received; in January 1905, it appeared in "Hototogisu" as a one-time reading, but was so well received that Soseki wrote a sequel. Around this time, Soseki began to aspire to live as a writer, and Soseki subsequent works, "The London Tower" and "Botsukuchiyan," were published in rapid succession, cementing Soseki position as a popular writer. Soseki's works were strongly influenced by the "low wanderlust" (a term coined by Soseki), in which Soseki tried to forget the world and view life in a relaxed manner, and Soseki was called a writer of the "margin school," which was opposed to the naturalism that was mainstream at the time.

In 1906, Toyotaka Komiya, Miekichi Suzuki, Souhei Morita, and others frequented Soseki's home, but as Soseki fame as a writer grew, the number of visitors increased and began to interfere with Soseki work, so Suzuki set Thursday as the day for weekly visits. Since Soseki decided that anyone could come on this day, Soseki's study became a salon-like place where many of Soseki students gathered to talk, and it soon became known as the "Thursday meeting" (from October 11, according to a letter dated October 8, 1906.) .
In February 1907, Soseki resigned from all teaching jobs and joined the Asahi Shimbun newspaper at the invitation of Ikebe Sanzan (monthly salary: 200 yen). Soseki turned down an invitation from Kano Torikichi, then the first president of Kyoto Imperial University's College of Letters (equivalent to today's Dean of the Faculty of Letters), to become a professor of English literature, and began Soseki career as a professional writer in earnest.

In June of the same year, Soseki began serializing Soseki first work as a professional writer, Agubincho. During the writing process, Soseki suffered from a nervous breakdown and stomach ailments, and was busy cleaning up after Soseki student Morita Souhei, who attempted to commit suicide with Hiratsuka Akiko (Hiratsuka Raiteu) in Shiobara, Tochigi Prefecture on March 23, 1908 (the Shiobara Incident).

In 1909, Soseki traveled to Manchuria and Korea at the invitation of Soseki close friend Korekoh Nakamura, president of the South Manchuria Railway. The record of this trip was serialized in the Asahi Shimbun as "Manchurian and Korean Places.

In October of the same year, on Soseki way back from a trip to Manchuria, Soseki visited Nyoseki Hasegawa, who lives in Osaka. On this occasion, Soseki also visits a restaurant in Hamadera.
In June 1910, Soseki was hospitalized at Nagayo Gastroenterology Hospital (Nagayo Gastroenterology Hospital) with a stomach ulcer while writing "The Gate", the third novel in Soseki first trilogy following "Sanshiro" and "Sorekara".

In August of the same year, at the suggestion of Soseki student Toyo Matsune, Soseki went to Shuzenji in Izu to recuperate at the Kikuya Ryokan. There, however, Soseki developed a stomach ailment, vomiting up to 800 g of blood, and fell into a critical condition, hovering between life and death. This incident is known as the "Shuzenji Incident.

The experience of temporary "death" at this time influenced Soseki later works. Soseki himself mentions this time in Soseki book, "Remembering, etc.". In Soseki final years, Soseki held "Noriten ko me" as Soseki ideal, and it is said that this may have been an expression of Soseki feelings at this time. In "In the Glass Door," Soseki expressed Soseki true feelings. In October of the same year, Soseki condition calmed down, and Soseki returned to Nagayo Hospital for readmission. Thereafter, Soseki suffered from stomach ulcers and other ailments many times.
In August 1911, immediately after Soseki lecture in Kansai, Soseki stomach ulcer recurred and Soseki was hospitalized at Osaka Gastroenterological Hospital in Osaka. After returning to Tokyo, Soseki suffered from hemorrhoids and visited the hospital.

In September 1912, Soseki underwent another surgery for hemorrhoids. In December of the same year, Soseki also aborted writing "Gyojin" for the first time due to illness.

In 1913, Soseki suffered from a nervous breakdown and stomach ulcers until around June.

In September 1914, Soseki fell ill for the fourth time with a stomach ulcer. In Soseki later years, Soseki continued to write while battling Soseki illness. Soseki works pursued the egoism of human beings, leading to Soseki later trilogy, "Higan kara no kara," "Gyojin," and "Kokoro.
In March 1915, Soseki traveled to Kyoto, where Soseki suffered from Soseki fifth stomach ulcer; in June, Soseki began a serialization of "Michiso," a retrospective on Soseki environment at the time of writing "I am a Cat. Soseki died at home on December 9 after attending Takashi Tatsuno's wedding that year, in the middle of writing "Mei An" due to internal bleeding. 50 years old (49 years and 10 months old).

Soseki last words were said to be, "Pour water on me here, I don't want to die," which Soseki shouted as Soseki flung open Soseki chest in Soseki nightgown. However, when Soseki fourth daughter, Aiko, began to cry and Soseki wife, Kagamiko, warned Soseki about it, Soseki calmed her down and said, "It's okay, it's okay, you can cry now," which is also said to be Soseki last words.

The day after Soseki death, Soseki body was dissected by Mataro Nagayo in the autopsy room of the Tokyo Imperial University School of Medicine. The brain and stomach removed during the autopsy were donated. The brain is still stored at the University of Tokyo Faculty of Medicine in ethanol. It weighed 1,425 grams. Soseki family name was Soseki Soseki, the founder of the Sokendai Soseki School of Medicine. Soseki grave is located in Zoshigaya Cemetery (Type 1, No. 14, 1 side, No. 3) in Minami Ikebukuro, Toshima-ku, Tokyo.

The portrait was used on the Bank of Japan's D1,000 yen note issued from 1984 to 2004.
January 5, 1867 - Born in Ushigome Babashita Yokomachi, Edo (now Kikui-cho, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo) as the fifth son of Naokatsu Natsume Kohei and Chie. The Natsume family had been a feudal lord for generations, but because the family's fortunes were declining at the time, Soseki was sent as a foster child to an antique dealer in Yotsuya soon after Soseki birth, but was soon brought back to the family.
November 1868 - Adopted son of Shonosuke Shiobara, a prominent Shinjuku family lord, and took the surname Shiobara.
1869 (Meiji 2) - Foster father, Masanosuke, becomes an attendant in Asakusa and moves to Asakusa Sangencho.
1870 - Soseki contracted pemphigus from smallpox, which left scars on Soseki face. The scars were so noticeable that they were used to write a song called "Hitotsu Natsume no Onigawara" ("One Natsume's Onigawara").
1874 - Foster father, Masanosuke, and foster mother, Yasu, had a disagreement and temporarily took Soseki in to Soseki birth family in Kikui-cho. Entered Asakusa Kotobuki-cho Toda Gakko lower elementary school 8th grade (later became Taito Ward Seika Elementary School, now Taito Ward Kuramae Elementary School). (later Seika Elementary School in Taito Ward, now Kuramae Elementary School in Taito Ward).
1876 (9th year of Meiji) - Soseki adoptive mother was separated from the Shiobara family, and Soseki and Soseki adoptive mother moved to Soseki birthplace while still enrolled in the Shiobara family. Transferred to Ichigaya Yanagicho Ichigaya School (now Shinjuku Aichichi Elementary School).

Kinnosuke around 11 or 12 years old
1878 (11th year of Meiji)
February - Writes "Shosei-ron" for the Circulation Magazine.
October - Graduated from Kinka Elementary School (now Ochanomizu Elementary School in Chiyoda Ward) in the second semester of the second grade of elementary school.
1879 - Entered the seventh grade of Tokyo Prefectural First Junior High School's regular course (the predecessor of Tokyo Metropolitan Hibiya High School).
1881 - January - Death of Soseki biological mother, Chie. Dropped out of Prefectural First Middle School. Transferred to private school Nisshogakusa (now Nisshogakusa University).
1883 - September - Enrolls in the Seikatsugakusha in Surugadai, Kanda.

Kinnosuke in Soseki days as a university preliminaries student (1886)
1884 - Lodged with Sagoro Hashimoto on the second floor of Shinpukuji Temple in Koishikawa Gokurakumizu. While living on Soseki own cooking, Soseki attended Seisei Gakusha.
September - Entered the preparatory course at the University Preparatory Department (renamed Daiichi Koto Junior High School (later Daiichi High School) in 1886). Soseki classmates included Korekou Nakamura, Yaichi Haga, Naohiko Masaki, and Sagoro Hashimoto.
1885 - Lodged at Sue-Tomiya in Sarugaku-cho with about 10 others, including Korekou Nakamura and Sagoro Hashimoto.
July 1886 - Failed due to peritonitis. This failure was a turning point in Soseki life, and Soseki later graduated at the top of Soseki class. Becomes a teacher at the Honjo Koto Gijuku with Korekou Nakamura and moves into a dormitory at the school.
1887 - Eldest brother Daisuke died in March and second brother Einosuke died in June, both of lung disease. Suffering from acute trahome, Soseki returns home. Climbed Mt. Fuji for the first time in the summer.
1888 (21st year of Meiji)
January - The Shiobara family reinstates Soseki and Soseki returns to the Natsume surname.
July - Graduated from the First Higher Junior High School Preparatory Course.
September - Decides to major in English Literature and enrolls in a part of the main course.
1889 (22nd year of Meiji)
January - Begins friendship with Shiki Masaoka.
May - Writes a review of Shiki's "Nanakusa-shu" and uses the pen name "Soseki" for the first time.
1890 (23rd year of Meiji)
July - Graduated from the First Higher Junior High School.
September - Enters the Department of English Literature at the Imperial University of Tokyo (later Tokyo Imperial University). Soseki receives a loan from the Ministry of Education.

Kinnosuke in 1891. Taken to commemorate Soseki ascent of Mt.

Soseki during Soseki time at Imperial University, June 1892.
1891 (24th year of Meiji)
July - Becomes a special student. Climbed Mt. Fuji for the second time.
December - The Hojoki is translated into English.
1892 (25th year of Meiji era)
April - Branch family. Transferred to Fukiage-cho, Iwanai-gun, Goshikuni, Hokkaido (some say this was to avoid conscription).
May - Becomes a lecturer at Tokyo Senmon Gakko (now Waseda University).
1893 (26th year of Meiji era)
July - Graduated from Imperial University and entered graduate school.
October - Becomes an English teacher at the Higher Normal School (later Tokyo Higher Normal School). The principal of the Higher Normal School was a judo master named Jigoro Kano, famous as the founder of Kodokan.
February 1894 - Soseki shows signs of tuberculosis and seeks medical treatment.

Soseki's fable "Gudabutsu-an" in Soseki Matsuyama period

Soseki as a professor at the Fifth Higher School
1895 (28th year of Meiji era)
April - Under the advice of Torao Suga, Soseki is assigned to Matsuyama Junior High School (the predecessor of Matsuyama Higashi Senior High School in Ehime Prefecture).
December - The marriage is arranged with Kagamiko, the eldest daughter of Shigekazu Nakane, the chief secretary of the House of Peers, and the engagement is consummated.
1896 (29th year of Meiji era)
April - Becomes an instructor at Kumamoto's Fifth High School.
June - Marries Kyoko Nakane.
July - Becomes professor.
June 1897 - Naokatsu, Soseki own father, dies.
October 1898 - Became the head of the haiku association "Shimei Ginsha".
May 1899 - Eldest daughter, Fudeko, is born.
May 1900 - Studied in England (visited the Paris World's Fair on the way).
January 1901 - Tsuneko, the second daughter, is born.
September 1902 - Masaoka Shiki dies.

Soseki in front of the entrance to the main building of the First High School, February 1907.
1903 (36th year of Meiji era)
April - Became a lecturer at Daiichi High School and also served as a lecturer at Tokyo Imperial University, College of Letters and Science.
October - Eiko, Soseki third daughter, was born. Soseki began watercolor painting and calligraphy.
April 1904 - Also lecturer at Meiji University.
January 1905 - "I am a Cat" is published in "Hototogisu" (serialized intermittently until August of the following year).
December - Aiko, the fourth daughter, is born.
April 1906 - "Botsuchiyan" was published in "Hototogisu".
1907 (40th year of Meiji era)
January - "Noubun" was published in "Hototogisu".
April - Resigns all teaching jobs and joins the Asahi Shimbun. Begins Soseki career as a professional writer.
June - Junichi, the first son, is born. Pugenkusa" is serialized in the Asahi Shinbun (Asahi Shimbun) (-Oct.).
September - Moved to 7 Waseda Minami-cho, Ushigome-ku, Tokyo.
1908 (Meiji 41)
Serialized "Miner" (January - April), "Buncho" (June), "Ten Nights of Dreams" (July - August), and "Sanshiro" (September - December) in the Asahi Shimbun.
December - Second son Shinroku is born.
March 1909 - Soseki foster father asked Soseki for money, and such incidents continued until November.
1910 (Meiji 43)
March - Fifth daughter, Hinako, is born.
June - Admitted to Nagayo Gastroenterological Hospital in Uchisaiwaicho for stomach ulcers.
August - Moved to Shuzenji Onsen for medical treatment. On the night of the 24th of the same month, Soseki vomits a large amount of blood and is temporarily in critical condition.
October - Admitted to Nagayo Hospital.
1911 (Meiji 44)
February 21 - The Ministry of Education declines to award Soseki a doctorate in literature.
August - Traveled to Akashi, Wakayama, Sakai, and Osaka for lectures sponsored by the Asahi Shimbun newspaper. In Osaka, Soseki stomach ulcer recurred and Soseki was admitted to Yukawa Gastroenterology Hospital.
November 29 - Hinako, the fifth daughter, dies suddenly of unknown causes. Later becomes a distant cause of Soseki's autopsy.
1913 (Taisho 2)
January - Severe neurosis returns.
March - Stomach ulcer recurrence; laid ill at home until late May. Soseki is reassigned from Hokkaido to Tokyo.

Soseki in Soseki study at "Soseki Sanso" (1914)
1914 (Taisho 3)
April - "Kokoro" is serialized in the Asahi Shimbun (Asahi Shimbun) (-August).
November - Delivers a lecture on "My Individualism" at the Gakushuin Sukeinikai.
1915 (Taisho 4)
June - "Michikusa" serialized in Asahi Shinbun (Asahi Shimbun) (- September).
November - Played in Yugahara with Korekou Nakamura.
December - Ryunosuke Akutagawa and Masao Kume joined Soseki group. Around this time, Soseki suffers from rheumatism.
1916 (Taisho 5)
January - Moved to Yugahara to stay with Korekou Nakamura of Amanoya for treatment of rheumatism.
May - "Mei An" (Light and Dark) is serialized in the Asahi Shimbun (Asahi Shimbun) (-December).
December 9 - Died of a stomach ulcer just before 7 pm. Soseki family name, Soseki Soseki, was a member of the Sentoin Kodo Soseki family.
November 1984 - Soseki portrait was adopted on the 1,000 yen bill.
According to the Natsume family genealogy, the ancestors of the Natsume family were members of the Natsume clan of the Seiwa Genji Mankai line, and were related to Yoshinobu (Hirotsugu) Natsume, a vassal of the Tokugawa clan in Mikawa province, who shared the same ancestor, Kunihira Natsume. The ancestors of the Natsume family served the Takeda family and were given Natsume-eup in Yashiro-gun, Kai Province. After Katsuyori Takeda fell several generations later, the head of the Natsume family at that time, Trust Natsume, moved to Iwatsuki-eup in Saitama-gun, Musashi Province and served Ujifusa Ota and later Kiyonaga Takanori, who ruled the Iwatsuki domain. Soseki son Ujimasa retired due to illness, became a local retainer, and moved to Ushigome-mura, Toshima-gun. 1702, in the fourth lunar month of the 15th year of the Genroku era, when Ujimasa's son Natsume Hei Naoshi was appointed as a feudal lord. However, Mitsuo Watanabe states that there are some suspicious points in the Natsume family genealogy, such as the number of generations being too small compared to those of the Hatamoto Natsume clan and the Takanori clan, and the lack of continuity in the common characters.

The Natsume family was allowed to wear the family surname and to remove their swords only when entering the magistrate's office. Natsume-zaka," which still exists today in Shinjuku City, was named by Soseki's father, Naokatsu. A monument at Soseki birthplace also faces the slope.

It was Naokatsu who named the town Kikui-cho after Soseki family crest (jomon), which is a "chrysanthemum in a well". Soseki's own family crest is "Kikubishi. (It is normal for the head and branch families to use different family crests.)

Soseki was the fifth son of a father, Naokatsu, and a mother, Chie. Chie was Naokatsu's second wife and the daughter of a brothel in Shinjuku called Izubashi. According to "Natsume Soseki: People and Works 3," p. 11, "In those days, a brothel was not considered a very lowly occupation, and was regarded as a kind of social gathering place. The family lived apart from the brothel and spent their time performing the amusement arts and tea ceremony, leading a hobbyist lifestyle. However, Naokatsu was still concerned about the public's perception of Soseki. She was married to Chie's sister, Takahashi Chozaemon, a charcoal wholesaler from the Satsuma clan in Shiba, but ostensibly she had married into the family from a pawn shop called Kagiya in Yotsuya Obancho. For this reason, Soseki is said to have believed that Soseki mother's family was a pawnbroker all Soseki life. Soseki has two daughters (half-sisters) by Naokatsu and Soseki ex-wife.
The grandson of the third brother, Wasaburo (Naonori Natsume), is Taro Natsume (Taro Nitta), an entertainment production manager who played Soseki in a Visa card CF.
Another grandson of the third brother, Wasaburo (Naonori Natsume), is Hideo Tsunoda, a member of the Asahi Shimbun (Soseki served as deputy editor of "Asahi Weekly", editor-in-chief of "Asahi Camera", editor-in-chief of "Books" and editor-in-chief of "Art Books").
Wife - 2 sons and 5 daughters with Kagamiko Natsume.
Tsuneko, the second daughter, wrote a book titled "Ki mien kage.
The fourth daughter, Aiko, is the model for Seifu Tsuda's portrait of the girl.
The fifth daughter, Hinako, died at the age of one. Their umbilical cords were found and purchased by Tohoku University.
The children's dates of birth are as follows.

May 31, 1899 - Eldest daughter Fudeko is born. See below.
January 26, 1901 - Tsuneko, Soseki second daughter, is born. She marries into the Ezoe family, but they divorce, and she dies of illness in 1936.
November 3, 1903 - Eiko, the third daughter, was born. She remained single all her life and took care of her mother. She died in 1979.
December 14, 1905 - Aiko, the fourth daughter, is born. She marries into the Nakachi family. Dies in 1981.
June 5, 1907 - Birth of first son, Junichi. See individual articles.
December 17, 1908 - Second son Shinroku is born. See individual articles.
March 2, 1910 (Meiji 43) - Fifth daughter Hinako is born. Died at age 1 on November 29, 1911. Eldest son - Junichi Natsume, violinist
Grandson - Fusanosuke Natsume, manga critic and essayist, eldest son of Junichi
Great-grandson - Rinnosuke Natsume, writer and editor, eldest son of Fusanosuke
Eldest daughter - FUDEKO NATSUME (Writer, 1899 - 1989) was born in Kumamoto Prefecture. Graduated from Japan Women's University High School for Girls. Real name - Fude.
Daughter-in-law - Yuzuru Matsuoka (writer, husband of FUDEKO)
Grandson - Yoko Matsuoka McLain, professor emeritus at the University of Oregon, second daughter of Fudeko
Grandchild - Sueko Hando (essayist, fourth daughter of Fudeko)
Second son - Shinroku Natsume (Essayist)
Grandchild - Sayoko Natsume (Shinroku's eldest daughter)
Grandson-in-law - Yoshio Natsume (musician, husband of Sayoko)
Great-grandson - Tetsuro Natsume (music producer, composer and arranger, third son of Sayoko)
Great-grandchild - Kazuto Natsume (creator, second son of Sayoko)
GENGRANDCHILD - Himika Natsume, singer-songwriter, eldest daughter of Sayoko
Those considered to be Soseki's students include not only writers but also scholars, educators, and cultural figures in various fields. By them, Soseki's influence spread over a wide range of cultural fields and formed a standard value system among intellectuals in the late Taisho and early Showa periods. Jun Tosaka, a student of Soseki, named the group of students who became the source of the "Soseki culture" during this period the Soseki Mountain Range. The group of students who were the originators of the Soseki culture was named the Soseki Mountains by Honda Akira.
Soseki did not have a master-student relationship with them in the sense of training Soseki successors. Although a large percentage of Soseki's students were Soseki students when Soseki was teaching, most of them were young men who came to the school as guests mainly on Thursday visiting days (the so-called "Thursday meeting") and were strongly inspired by Soseki's interaction with them, leading them to call themselves Soseki students. However, Soseki discussed with them on an almost equal footing at the Thursday meetings, and Tokuda said that compared to Soseki mentor Ozaki Momiji, "Soseki's situation was a little different; I don't think it was a strict teacher-student relationship. Jiro Abe, who is said to have been one of Soseki's students, also stated the following.

If by "pupil" Soseki meant someone who had a formal agreement with Soseki as a teacher and disciple, I would like to say that Soseki had no pupils at all. Soseki was surrounded by many young people. There was a closeness between the teacher and these people as senior and junior that is unparalleled in today's Japanese literary world. However, these people were not those whom the teacher had specifically selected to propagate Soseki way. （Soseki only met the young people who naturally gathered at Soseki school, talked with them, consulted with them, and sometimes took care of them. To become a student of the teacher, it was enough to be a guest at the teacher's house on Thursdays. The relationship between Sensei and Soseki so-called students was only this simple at first. （Soseki was always a man who valued Soseki independence, so Soseki rarely forced Soseki opinions on Soseki students. In fact, there was a strong difference of opinion between Sensei and Soseki so-called students.

The list of Soseki's students listed by Abe Jiro also includes Mushanokoji Saneatsu and Shiga Naoya of the Shirakaba School, and Nagao Tsuyoshi also considers them to be Soseki de facto disciples. They had a policy of having no seniors or mentors in the literary world and never called themselves Soseki's disciples, but they admitted that they respected Soseki the most in the literary world at that time, and Soseki also paid close attention to them. Although some people distinguish them from the above-mentioned pupils and say that they were not Soseki direct pupils, Soseki himself did not have such a sense of distinction.

Among Soseki students, Miekichi Suzuki, Toyotaka Komiya, Souhei Morita, and Yoshinari Abe were particularly close to Soseki and played a central role in the Thursday Club, and are known as the "Four Heavenly Kings under Soseki. Among them, Toyotaka Komiya was said to be the most beloved of all, and even after Soseki's death, Soseki was sometimes ridiculed as the "Shinto priest of the Soseki Shrine" for Soseki efforts to make Soseki an authority on the subject. Torahiko Terada, who had a close relationship of trust with Soseki since Soseki days at the Fifth Higher School, was treated differently among Soseki students and was often referred to as Soseki number one disciple. On the other hand, Yayoko Nogami never attended the Thursday meetings and met Soseki only a few times in person, but she is described by Shigeki Senuma and Shohei Ooka as "Soseki's most legitimate heir. Some also believe that among the diverse personalities of Soseki's literature, "the literary tradition of anti-naturalism was inherited by Ryunosuke Akutagawa, the ethicality by Naoya Shiga, and the romanticism by Hyakken Uchida. Of these writers, Akutagawa is the most popular among the general public, and in the academic field, Abe Jiro, Abe Yoshinari, and Watsuji Tetsuro led the Taisho liberalism and greatly influenced prewar academicism, and Jun Tosaka considers these four "representatives of Soseki culture. Shigeo Iwanami was the greatest contributor to the spread of "Soseki culture" in the publishing industry.

Soseki also saw the Asahi Shimbun as a place to introduce up-and-coming writers to the world, and Soseki asked Morita Souhei and Naka Kansuke, who were not well known as writers, to write "Soot and Smoke (Novel)" and "The Silver Spoon" as serials, which became their successful works. In 1914, Soseki asked Naoya Shiga, who had previously published only short stories, to write a serialized long story to follow "Kokoro". Shiga accepted the request and began to write a full-length story, but Soseki had trouble writing it and decided to turn it down. Soseki asked Saneatsu Mushanokoji, Yayoko Nogami, and others to fill in for Soseki. （Shiga, however, did not give up writing full-length works, despite Soseki writing troubles, and finally completed it in 1937. (This is Soseki only full-length work, "Koyo Gyoji.) In 1909, Soseki established the "Asahi Bungei Ban (Asahi Literary Section)" as a venue for Soseki critical activities, and assigned Souhei Morita and Toyotaka Komiya to edit the section. The two, as well as Jiro Abe, Yoshinari Abe, and others, drew attention for their anti-naturalist polemics, but the paper was discontinued in 1911 due to criticism within the Asahi Shimbun that it was privatizing its pages.

In the early summer of 1915, an aspiring writer named Misao Tsusue visited Soseki's house from Nagoya, but Soseki did not appreciate her literary talent and suggested that she should continue living with her local parents. Two days later, Jiji Shimpo published an article titled "A new woman enters the water, studies under Soseki Natsume, and has a reputation as a brilliant woman" along with Soseki's story (it was later revealed that this was an attempt). Although Soseki did not have a relationship with her beyond that of a visitor, the mass media regarded her as a student, which confirms the character of "so-called student" in Abe Jiro's words.
Asian perspective
In Soseki essay "Civilization in Manchuria," published in the October 18, 1909 edition of the Tokyo Asahi Shimbun, Soseki wrote the following
What impressed me during my recent trip was the fact that the Japanese people are enterprising and will go to any lengths to develop themselves in spite of their poverty, as well as the spirit of their managers. After traveling around Manchuria and Korea, I have come to realize that the Japanese people are a dependable people. Therefore, wherever I go, I feel comfortable and at ease. On the other hand, when I see Chinese and Koreans, I feel very sorry for them. Fortunately, I am lucky to have been born a Japanese.
- The Civilization of Manchuria
Eight days later, after Hirobumi Ito was assassinated at Harbin Station on October 26, Soseki wrote the following in Soseki essay "Han Manchu Shokan (Below)" published in the "Manchurian Daily News" dated November 6.
Another thing I felt during my travels was the realization that I was fortunate to have been born Japanese. While I was in Korea, I was constantly oppressed by the thought that there were no other people in the world as pitiful as the Japanese. I was deeply impressed in my mind that the Japanese are also a very dependable race. At the same time, I was glad that I had not been born a Chinese or a Korean. My fellow countrymen, who face these people with the enthusiasm of a victor, are truly the darlings of destiny.
- Han-Man opinion

In the essay "Han Manchu Shokan" unearthed in 2013, comparative literature scholar Yukihiro Hirakawa wrote, "Perhaps because Soseki had a strong desire to compete with the British colonial empire, Soseki straightforwardly affirms Japan's colonization project and gaga over the activities of Japanese residents abroad. Soseki did not show political interest like Ishiguro Tadanori and Ueda Satoshi, who questioned the annexation of Japan and Korea. Soseki honestly writes, "I was fortunate enough to be born a Japanese," and "I am glad that I was not born a Chinese or a Korean. Soseki wrote, "I am glad I was not born a Chinese or a Korean," and "I am glad I was not born a Chinese or a Korean," although "well" may be problematic.
In Soseki essay, "A feeling of Han-Man (upper part)," which appeared in the November 5, 1909 issue of the "Manchurian Daily News," Soseki mentions the assassination of Hirobumi Ito: "Last night, after a long absence, I decided to write something in the Manchurian Daily News, and while writing, I recognized two or three lines. I was writing a couple of lines when I received a news report that Lord Ito had been shot at in Harbin. Harbin was a place I had visited earlier, and the platzhofen where Soseki was said to have been shot was actually the spot where I had pressed the sole of my shoe against it a month before, so besides the fact that it was a rare calamity, I felt a strong stimulus from the association with the place. I am not qualified to report on the incident, so I will only give you a very ordinary report," Soseki wrote.
Soseki was prone to illness as Soseki grew older, suffering from numerous ailments, including pulmonary tuberculosis, trachoma, nervous exhaustion, hemorrhoids, diabetes, and even a fatal stomach ulcer. In addition to works such as "In the Glass Door," in which Soseki directly refers to Soseki own illnesses, Soseki novels also contain descriptions of Soseki own illnesses, such as "I am a Cat," in which Dr. Kusaya has a weak stomach, and "Mei An" which begins with a scene in which Soseki is diagnosed with hemorrhoids. In addition to Soseki works, many of Soseki novels are based on Soseki own illnesses, such as "Autumn Breeze and Cracks in the Stomach," which begins with a scene in which Soseki examines Soseki hemorrhoids.

Soseki could not drink alcohol, but despite Soseki weak stomach, Soseki enjoyed oily foods such as beefsteak and Chinese food. During Soseki convalescence, Soseki craved ice cream, which was a precious commodity at the time, and even ordered a commercial ice cream machine without Soseki family's permission, which resulted in a big fight with Soseki wife. Soseki was also fond of jam, which had just begun to appear on the market at the time, and licked it every day, to the point that Soseki doctor had to stop Soseki.

Soseki once made and used the nickname "broken shoji" because the sound of Soseki frequent farts caused by a weak stomach sounded just like the sound of wind blowing against a torn shoji.

In addition, Soseki had smallpox (pemphigus) and had an inferiority complex about Soseki appearance. However, at that time, photographers often corrected Soseki appearance, and the photographs that remain today show no evidence of the "pockmarks" that Soseki was so concerned about.
Soseki is believed to have suffered from a nervous breakdown, depression, and schizophrenia. How this affected the life and works of Soseki, who was a member of the elite and a top-level intellectual at the time, has been the subject of psychiatrists' pathological research, and indeed, several scholarly papers have been published on the subject.
In contrast, Mori Ogai, the eldest son of a doctor of the Tsuwano domain, was raised with high expectations and affection from Soseki family from early on, and continued to serve in the Imperial Japanese Army and other government offices until Soseki death. In contrast, Natsume Soseki wrote, "I can afford to be a man of the government side. Soseki Natsume was called the "marginist," while Mori Ogai was called the "high-minded.

At the same time, however, both men maintained a clear distance from the "naturalistic literary stance" and pursued their literary activities with a broad knowledge of both the East and the West, and they had a reasonable influence on subsequent literary generations by keeping their perceptions firmly in view of the mainstream values of modernization that were becoming distorted.

The Sendagi residence where Ogai spent about one year from 1890 and wrote "Bunzukahi" and other works was also where Soseki, who later returned from London, lived for about three years from 1903 and wrote "I am a Cat" (I am a Cat).
Soseki in Soseki later years underwent a profound change of mind after the Shuzenji incident," was a comment made by many critics and researchers later in Soseki life. Soseki's own phrase "Sokuten kooshi" is widely known as an expression of this state of mind, and is even introduced in the Kojien. However, the meaning of this phrase is not always clear, since Soseki himself did not write the phrase, but Soseki students wrote down Soseki comments.

In this regard, what Toyotaka Komiya wrote, especially "Natsume Soseki" (1938), also needs to be scrutinized again.
It is in Soseki diary that Soseki became friends with the mother of Grace Knott, an English missionary living in Kumamoto, and also consulted with her on the ship of travel.
Soseki's works show extensive use of word play, such as reordering and guesswork. There are coined words that show no evidence of having been used before Soseki, as well as a different kind of spelling from that of commonly used kanji. Many of them have now become general terms, such as "raman" and "many" below, but they are also often used as advanced questions in kanji examinations.
It is said that some of them, such as "Usagi ni kaku" (anyway), have become established as common usage. For example, "bucket" was written as "horse's buttocks," which was very common at that time, and "monogatari" was a military term at that time. Without checking all pre-Soseki materials, it is not possible to confirm this.

It is said that Soseki coined the words "metabolism," "reflection," "unconsciousness," "value," "electric power," and "stiff shoulders," but in fact there are examples of usage that predate Soseki. One example is the theory that Soseki coined the term "stiff shoulders," but examples can be found in Kabuki and comic books from around the end of the 18th century (late Edo period). Although no word that can be said to have been academically "coined by Soseki" has yet been confirmed, there is a description of "romance" in "Kyoiku to Bungei" (Education and Literature), which states, "Since there was no suitable translation, I created my own and put it down as romance-ism.
Some Chinese poems written by Japanese poets may not be considered excellent Chinese poems when recited in Chinese, because they are not conscious of the tone of voice in Chinese, even if they are in tune with the original. However, Soseki's Chinese poems are considered beautiful even when recited in Chinese, and in 2006, a book titled "Chinese listening to Soseki Natsume's Chinese Poems" (Koubunsha) was published with a CD.

A pioneering study of Soseki's Chinese poetry is Kojiro Kikkawa's "Soseki Poetic Commentary" (1967), but it is said to be deficient in that it does not include annotations on Zen terms, which Soseki was well versed in (Shukan Yomitohito, Hiroshi Katsumata). In 1946, Soseki daughter-in-law Yuzuru Matsuoka published "Soseki no Kampo" ("Soseki's Poetry in Chinese"), and in 2008, the writer Yukichi Furui published "Soseki no Kampo" ("Soseki's Poetry in Chinese"). The poems have been annotated from a Zen perspective in Toshiyuki Iida's "A New Translation of Soseki's Poems". On January 25, 2016, Nishogakusha University announced that it had purchased a folding screen of Chinese poems in Soseki's handwriting from a secondhand bookstore. The folding screens are a pair of two-folded screens, each measuring 1m62 in length and 80 cm in width, and the contents were selected from scenes of spring, summer, autumn, and winter from "Zenrin Kusshu."
Soseki's studio in Waseda Minamimachi was destroyed by fire in an air raid during World War II, but most of the collection, diaries, and other autograph materials were moved to the Tohoku University Library, where Toyotaka Komiya served as director, and thus survived the fire. Tohoku University has made them available to researchers as the "Natsume Soseki Library. In recent years, the manuscript papers have deteriorated, so in 2019, the university raised funds through crowdfunding to preserve them as a digital archive.

The Kanagawa Museum of Modern Literature has published images of the calligraphies and paintings provided by the bereaved family as the "Web version of the Natsume Soseki Digital Literature Museum.
Although not as well known in the West as Soseki immense fame in Japan, several of Soseki major works have been translated into English in English-speaking countries and have received some recognition.

In the 1960s, an English translation of "Kusamakura" by Englishman Alan Turney, "The Three Cornered World," was published. It became a favorite of Canadian pianist Glenn Gould, who read a portion of it himself on a radio program in Soseki later years.
In "Life After Death: Machado de Assis" ("On Writing, Roland Barthes"), American critic Susan Sontag describes Soseki as "another versatile genius, Soseki Natsume, whom the Eurocentric view of world literature has pushed to the margins.
Damian Flanagan, a British critic who published a translation of "The Tower of London" in 2005, has rated Soseki as one of the world's great writers, along with Shakespeare and Goethe, and has also said that Soseki is hardly recognized in the United Kingdom and other Western countries, and the reason for this, Soseki believes that the reason for this is that Soseki is not perceived as having the "Japaneseness" of Kawabata Yasunari or Mishima Yukio. However, according to Flanagan, Soseki is not only a representative of "Japanese literature," but also of world literature that explores the universality of human beings and the mind, and although not currently recognized as such, Soseki cites and praises Shakespeare's worldwide recognition largely due to German Romanticism, including Lessing and Goethe. Soseki praises them with quotations.
The review "SANSHIRO AND SOSEKI: A Critical Essay," written by himself and accompanying the English translation "Sanshiro A Novel" (University of Toronto Press) by American comparative literature scholar Jay Rubin, is comprehensive and excellent as a discussion of "Sanshiro. Rubin's rigorous quotation and translation into English of the text of Soseki's complete works truly shows that Soseki has joined the ranks of world literature. Rubin has also translated other works, such as "The Miner," into English.
It is well known in China, Taiwan, and Korea, and many of its works have been translated into Chinese and Korean. In Chinese-speaking countries, Soseki's works have been loved by many readers since they were introduced by Zhou Zhao Zhuang-jen. Soseki's works have long been popular in Korea as well, but their popularity has grown especially since the 1990s, leading to what is known as the "Soseki boom.
The expression "imo-chu no tsukita" (meaning "the lowest class of taro") in "Kakonin" was considered problematic, and Kadokawa Shoten decided to foreshadow this term. However, in a note at the end of the book, it was described as "a derogatory term for people from a special tribe," which in turn became problematic and was denounced by the Buraku Liberation League in early 1981. This phrase is also used in "The Complete Works of Soseki Natsume 4" (Chikuma Bunko), where it is written down as "Imo chu no nakai nakai nakai nakai nakai nakai nakai.

In March 1994, the word "koboshi" (school janitor) in "Botsuchiyan" became a problem during the NHK-FM broadcast reading time, and sentences such as "That's why I'm a junior high school janitor" were read out verbatim, and the announcer excused himself after the reading was finished. However, in "I am a Cat" from April 1994, expressions such as "blind" and "lame" became problematic, and these words were skipped in the reading.

In 1913 and 1914, Soseki received a can of tea from a man in Sakagoe, Banshu, who called himself Iwasaki Taroji. Soseki also asked Soseki to write a compliment on a picture Soseki had drawn of climbing Mt. Iwasaki persistently demanded, "If you don't write, return the tea. Soseki was so disgusted by Iwasaki's words and behavior that Soseki suspected that "no one but an impure person or a person of a higher class would say such a mean-spirited thing," and asked a man near Banshu to check out Iwasaki's hometown. Soseki asked a man near Banshu to check out Iwasaki's hometown. The answer was, "Sakagoe is a place where there are many wealthy families in Banshu.

Currently, these are often published as they are, acknowledging that these are discriminatory terms, since the author is deceased and the work is a literary work. This treatment is often the same for other deceased authors. Soseki also wrote "Etadera e no nen no nigiri" ("Pity that I marry into an unclean temple at the end of the year").
There is an anecdote that when Soseki was an English teacher, a student translated "I love you." as "I love you," and Soseki told Soseki to translate it romantically as "The moon is beautiful. However, there is no such story in Soseki's writings or records, nor is there any document or record of Soseki or anyone close to Soseki having heard this story.

A similar story also existed at the end of the 1970s, which is said to have been translated as "The moon is very blue" or "Because the moon is very blue. However, since the source of the story is unknown and the anecdote began to be told around the 1970s, it is believed to have been invented by a later generation and has now become an urban legend.
